WORLDMEM: Long-term Consistent
World Simulation with Memory
Zeqi Xiao1
Yushi Lan1
Yifan Zhou1
Wenqi Ouyang1
Shuai Yang2
Yanhong Zeng3
Xingang Pan1
1
S-Lab, Nanyang Technological University,
2
Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
3
Shanghai AI Laboratory
{zeqi001, yushi001, yifan006, wenqi.ouyang, xingang.pan}@ntu.edu.sg
williamyang@pku.edu.cn, zengyh1900@gmail.com
Abstract
World simulation has gained increasing popularity due to its ability to model virtual
environments and predict the consequences of actions. However, the limited tem-
poral context window often leads to failures in maintaining long-term consistency,
particularly in preserving 3D spatial consistency. In this work, we present WORLD-
MEM, a framework that enhances scene generation with a memory bank consisting
of memory units that store memory frames and states (e.g., poses and timestamps).
By employing state-aware memory attention that effectively extracts relevant in-
formation from these memory frames based on their states, our method is capable
of accurately reconstructing previously observed scenes, even under significant
viewpoint or temporal gaps. Furthermore, by incorporating timestamps into the
states, our framework not only models a static world but also captures its dynamic
evolution over time, enabling both perception and interaction within the simu-
lated world. Extensive experiments in both virtual and real scenarios validate the
effectiveness of our approach. Project page at https://xizaoqu.github.io/worldmem.
1 Introduction
World simulation has gained significant attention for its ability to model environments and predict
the outcomes of actions (Bar et al., 2024; Decart et al., 2024; Alonso et al., 2025; Feng et al., 2024;
Parker-Holder et al., 2024; Valevski et al., 2024). Recent advances in video diffusion models have
further propelled this field, enabling high-fidelity rollouts of potential future scenarios based on user
actions, such as navigating through an environment or interacting with objects. These capabilities
make world simulators particularly promising for applications in autonomous navigation (Feng et al.,
2024; Bar et al., 2024) and as viable alternatives to traditional game engines (Decart et al., 2024;
Parker-Holder et al., 2024).
Despite these advances, a fundamental challenge remains: the limited probing horizon. Due to
computational and memory constraints, video generative models operate within a fixed context
window and are unable to condition on the full sequence of past generations. Consequently, most
existing methods simply discard previously generated content, leading to a critical issue of world
inconsistency, which is also revealed in Wang et al. (2025). As illustrated in Figure 1(a), when the
camera moves away and returns, the regenerated content diverges from the earlier scene, violating
the coherence expected in a consistent world.
A natural solution is to maintain an external memory that stores and retrieves relevant historical
information outside the generative loop. While intuitive, formulating such a memory mechanism is
39th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2025).Initialize
Turn left Turn left Turn left Turn left Initialize
Turn Right
Turn Left
(a) without Memory (b) with Memory
Initialize Place pumpkin light Place pumpkin light Wander around
Wander around Wander around Wander around Look back
Temporal direction
Figure 1: WORLDMEM enables long-term consistent world generation with an integrated mem-
ory mechanism. (a) Previous world generation methods typically face the problem of inconsistent
world due to limited temporal context window size. (b) WORLDMEM empowers the agent to explore
diverse and consistent worlds with an expansive action space, e.g., crafting environments by placing
objects like pumpkin light or freely roaming around. Most importantly, after exploring for a while
and glancing back, we find the objects we placed are still there, with the inspiring sight of the light
melting the surrounding snow, testifying to the passage of time. Red and green boxes indicate scenes
that should be consistent.
non-trivial. A direct approach might involve explicit 3D scene reconstruction to preserve geometry
and detail. However, 3D representations are inflexible in dynamic and evolving environments and are
prone to loss of detail, especially for large, unbounded scenes (Wu et al., 2025a).
Instead, we argue that geometry-free representations offer a more flexible solution. These representa-
tions, however, pose their own challenges – particularly in balancing detail retention with memory
scalability. For example, implicit approaches like storing abstract features via LoRA modules (Hong
et al., 2024) offer compactness but lose visual fidelity and spatial specificity. Some recent works
represent visual scenes as discrete tokens encoding fine-grained visual information (Sajjadi et al.,
2022; Jiang et al., 2025), but they are limited by a fixed token and struggle to capture the complexity
of diverse and evolving environments. To address this issue, we observe that for generating the
immediate future, only a small subset of historical content is typically relevant. Based on this, we
propose a token-level memory bank that stores all previously generated latent tokens, and retrieves a
targeted subset for each generation step based on relevance.
Conditioning on the retrieved memory requires spatial-temporal reasoning. In contrast to prior
work where memory aids local temporal smoothness (Zheng et al., 2024a) or semantic coherence
(Wu et al., 2025b; Rahman et al., 2023), long-term world simulation demands reasoning over large
spatiotemporal gaps, e.g., memory and query may differ in viewpoint and time, and retain exact scenes
with detail. To facilitate this reasoning, we propose augmenting each memory unit with explicit state
cues, including spatial location, viewpoint, and timestamp. These cues serve as anchors for reasoning
and are embedded as part of the query-key attention mechanism. Through this state-aware attention,
our model can effectively reason the current frame with past observations, facilitating accurate and
coherent generation. Importantly, such a design leverages standard attention architectures, enabling it
to scale naturally with modern hardware and model capacity.
Motivated by this idea, we build our approach, WORLDMEM, on top of the Conditional Diffusion
Transformer (CDiT) (Peebles and Xie, 2023) and the Diffusion Forcing (DF) paradigm (Chen et al.,
2025), which autoregressively generates first-person viewpoints conditioned on external action signals.
As discussed above, at the core of WORLDMEM is a memory mechanism composed of a memory
bank and memory attention. To ensure efficient and relevant memory retrieval from the bank, we
introduce a confidence-based selection strategy that scores memory units based on field-of-view
2(FOV) overlap and temporal proximity. In the memory attention, the latent tokens being generated
act as queries, attending to the memory tokens (as keys and values) to incorporate relevant historical
context. To ensure robust correspondence across varying viewpoints and time gaps, we enrich both
queries and keys with state-aware embeddings. A relative embedding design is introduced to ease the
learning of spatial and temporal relationships. This pipeline enables precise, scalable reasoning over
long-range memory, ensuring consistency in dynamic and evolving world simulations.
We evaluate WORLDMEM on a customized Minecraft benchmark (Fan et al., 2022) and on
RealEstate10K (Zhou et al., 2018). The Minecraft benchmark includes diverse terrains (e.g., plains,
savannas, and deserts) and various action modalities (movement, viewpoint control, and event trig-
gers), which is a wonderful environment for idea verification. Extensive experiments show that
WORLDMEM significantly improves 3D spatial consistency, enabling robust viewpoint reasoning
and high-fidelity scene generation, as shown in Figure 1(b). Furthermore, in dynamic environments,
WORLDMEM accurately tracks and follows evolving events and environment changes, demonstrating
its ability to both perceive and interact with the generated world. We hope our promising results and
scalable designs will inspire future research on memory-based world simulation.
2 Related Work
Video diffusion model. With the rapid advancement of diffusion models (Song et al., 2020; Peebles
and Xie, 2023; Chen et al., 2025), video generation has made significant strides (Wang et al.,
2023a,b; Chen et al., 2023; Guo et al., 2023; OpenAI, 2024; Jin et al., 2024; Yin et al., 2024).
The field has evolved from traditional U-Net-based architectures (Wang et al., 2023a; Chen et al.,
2023; Guo et al., 2023) to Transformer-based frameworks (OpenAI, 2024; Ma et al., 2024; Zheng
et al., 2024b), enabling video diffusion models to generate highly realistic and temporally coherent
videos. Recently, autoregressive video generation (Chen et al., 2025; Kim et al., 2024; Henschel
et al., 2024) has emerged as a promising approach to extend video length, theoretically indefinitely.
Notably, Diffusion Forcing (Chen et al., 2025) introduces a per-frame noise-level denoising paradigm.
Unlike the full-sequence paradigm, which applies a uniform noise level across all frames, per-frame
noise-level denoising offers a more flexible approach, enabling autoregressive generation.
Interactive world simulation. World simulation aims to model an environment by predicting the
next state given the current state and action. This concept has been extensively explored in the
construction of world models (Ha and Schmidhuber, 2018b) for agent learning (Ha and Schmidhuber,
2018a; Hafner et al., 2019, 2020; Hu et al., 2023; Beattie et al., 2016; Yang et al., 2023). With
advances in video generation, high-quality world simulation with robust control has become feasible,
leading to numerous works focusing on interactive world simulation (Bar et al., 2024; Decart et al.,
2024; Alonso et al., 2025; Feng et al., 2024; Parker-Holder et al., 2024; Valevski et al., 2024; Yu
et al., 2025c,a,b). These approaches enable agents to navigate generated environments and interact
with them based on external commands.
However, due to context window limitations, such methods discard previously generated content,
leading to inconsistencies in the simulated world, particularly in maintaining 3D spatial coherence.
Consistent world simulation. Ensuring the consistency of a generated world is crucial for effective
world simulation Wang et al. (2025). Existing approaches can be broadly categorized into two
types: geometric-based and geometric-free. The geometric-based methods explicitly reconstruct the
generated world into a 3D/4D representation (Liu et al., 2024; Gao et al., 2024; Wang and Agapito,
2024; Ren et al., 2025; Yu et al., 2024b,a; Liang et al., 2024). While this strategy can reliably maintain
consistency, it imposes strict constraints on flexibility: Once the world is reconstructed, modifying or
interacting with it becomes challenging. Geometric-free methods focus on implicit learning. Methods
like Alonso et al. (2025); Valevski et al. (2024) ensure consistency by overfitting to predefined
scenarios (e.g., specific CS:GO or DOOM maps), limiting scalability. StreamingT2V (Henschel
et al., 2024) maintains long-term consistency by continuing on both global and local visual contexts
from previous frames, while SlowFastGen (Hong et al., 2024) progressively trains LoRA (Hu et al.,
2022) modules for memory recall. However, these methods rely on abstract representations, making
accurate scene reconstruction challenging. In contrast, our approach retrieves information from
previously generated frames and their states, ensuring world consistency without overfitting to
specific scenarios.
3DiT
Block
DiT
Block
DiT
Block
Spatial
Block
Temporal
Block
Memory
Block
…
× N steps
…
Memory bank
Sample
Clear frame
from memory bank
Clear frame within
the context window
Noisy frame
Inference
Training
Different levels of noise
(a) Architecture Overview (Inference) (b) Input Difference
CrossAttention
Timestep
Embedding
AdaLN
Layer Norm
Scale, Shift
Scale
Q
CA
CA
CA
(d) Memory Block
K
V
…
Q
K, V
State
E𝑞 Ek State Embedding E
MLP
Poses p
Plü cker Embedding
Timestamps 𝑡
Sinusoidal Embedding
MLP
(c) State Embedding
Figure 2: Comprehensive overview of WORLDMEM. The framework comprises a conditional
diffusion transformer integrated with memory blocks, with a dedicated memory bank storing memory
units from previously generated content. By retrieving these memory units from the memory bank
and incorporating the information by memory blocks to guide generation, our approach ensures
long-term consistency in world simulation.
3 WORLDMEM
This section details the methodology of WORLDMEM. Sec. 3.1 introduces the relevant preliminaries,
while Sec. 3.2 describes the interactive world simulator serving as our baseline. Sec. 3.3 and 3.4
present the core of our proposed memory mechanism.
3.1 Preliminary
Video diffusion models. Video diffusion models generate video sequences by iteratively denoising
Gaussian noise through a learned reverse process:
pθ(xk−1
t |xk
t ) = N(xk−1
t ;µθ(xk
t ,k),σ2
kI), (1)
where all frames (xk
t )1≤t≤T share the same noise level k, and T is the context window length.
This full-sequence approach enables global guidance but lacks flexibility in sequence length and
autoregressive generation.
Autoregressive video generation. Autoregressive video generation aims to extend videos over the
long term by predicting frames sequentially (Kondratyuk et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2023). While various
methods exist for autoregressive generation, Diffusion Forcing (DF) (Chen et al., 2025) provides a
neat and effective approach to achieve this. Specifically, DF introduces per-frame noise levels kt:
pθ(xkt−1
t |xkt
t ) = N(xkt−1
t ;µθ(xkt
t ,kt),σ2
kt
I), (2)
Unlike full-sequence diffusion, DF generates video flexibly and stably beyond the training horizon.
Autoregressive generation is a special case when only the last one or a few frames are noisy. With
autoregressive video generation, long-term interactive world simulation becomes feasible.
3.2 Interactive World Simulation
Before introducing the memory mechanism, we first present our interactive world simulator, which
models long video sequences using an auto-regressive conditional diffusion transformer. Interaction is
achieved by embedding external control signals, primarily actions, into the model through dedicated
conditioning modules (Parker-Holder et al., 2024; Decart et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2025c).
Following prior work (Decart et al., 2024), we adopt a conditional Diffusion Transformer (DiT) (Pee-
bles and Xie, 2023) architecture for video generation, and Diffusion Forecasting (DF) (Chen et al.,
42025) for autoregressive prediction. As shown in Figure 2(a), our model consists of multiple DiT
blocks with spatial and temporal modules for spatiotemporal reasoning. The temporal module applies
causal attention to ensure that each frame only attends to preceding frames.
The actions are injected by first projected into the embedding space using a multi-layer perceptron
(MLP). The resulting action embeddings are added to the denoising timestep embeddings and injected
into the temporal blocks using Adaptive Layer Normalization (AdaLN) (Xu et al., 2019), following
the paradigm of Bar et al. (2024); Decart et al. (2024). In our Minecraft experiments, the action
space contains 25 dimensions, including movements, view adjustments, and event triggers. We also
apply timestep embeddings to the spatial blocks in the same manner, although this is omitted from
the figure for clarity. Standard architectural components such as residual connections, multi-head
attention, and feedforward networks are also not shown.
The combination of conditional DiT and DF provides a strong baseline for long-term interactive video
generation. However, due to the computational cost of video synthesis, the temporal context window
remains limited. As a result, content outside this window is forgotten, which leads to inconsistencies
during long-term generation (Decart et al., 2024).
3.3 Memory Representation and Retrieval
Algorithm 1: Memory Retrieval Algorithm
Input: Memory bank of N historical states
{(xm
i ,pi,ti)}N
i=1;
Current state (xc,pc,tc); memory condition length LM;
Similarity threshold tr; weights wo, wt.
Output: A list of selected state indices S
Compute Confidence Score:
Compute FOV overlap ratio o via Monte Carlo sampling.
Compute time difference d = Concat({|ti − tc|}n
i=1).
Compute confidence α = o · wo − d · wt.
Selection with Similarity Filtering:
Initialize S = ∅
for m = 1 to LM do
Select i∗
with highest αi∗
Append i∗
to S
Remove all j where similarity(i∗
,j) > tr
return S
To address the limited context window
of video generative models, we introduce
a memory mechanism that enables the
model to retain and retrieve information be-
yond the current generation window. This
mechanism maintains a memory bank com-
posed of historical frames and their associ-
ated state information: {(xm
i ,pi,ti)}N
i=1,
where xm
i denotes a memory frame, pi ∈
R5
(x, y, z, pitch, yaw) is its pose, and ti is
the timestamp. Each tuple is referred to as
a memory unit. We save mi in token-level,
which is compressed by the visual encoder
but retains enough details for reconstruc-
tion. The corresponding states {(p,t)}
play a critical role not only in memory
retrieval but also in enabling state-aware
memory conditioning.
Memory Retrieval. Since the number of memory frames available for conditioning is limited, an
efficient strategy is required to sample memory units from the memory bank. We adopt a greedy
matching algorithm based on frame-pair similarity, where similarity is defined using the field-of-
view (FOV) overlap ratio and timestamp differences as confidence measures. Algorithm 1 presents
our approach to memory retrieval. Although simple, this strategy proves effective in retrieving
relevant information for conditioning. Moreover, the model’s reasoning over memory helps maintain
performance even when the retrieved content is imperfect.
3.4 State-aware Memory Condition
After retrieving necessary memory units, unlike prior methods that use memory mainly for temporal
smoothness (Zheng et al., 2024a) or semantic guidance (Wu et al., 2025b; Rahman et al., 2023), our
goal is to explicitly reconstruct previously seen visual content – even under significant viewpoint
or scene changes. This requires the model to perform spatiotemporal reasoning to extract relevant
information from memory, which we model using cross-attention (Vaswani et al., 2017). Since
relying solely on visual tokens can be ambiguous, we incorporate the corresponding states as cues to
enable state-aware attention.
State Embedding. State embedding provides essential spatial and temporal context for memory
retrieval. To encode spatial information, we adopt Plücker embedding (Sitzmann et al., 2021) to
convert 5D poses p ∈ R5
into dense positional features PE(p) ∈ Rh×w×6
, following (He et al., 2024;
Gao et al., 2024). Temporal context is captured via a lightweight MLP over sinusoidal embedded
5Initialize Place hay Place hay Move around … Place hay Turn left
GT Ours
Initialize Dig Plant seed Turn left Move around …
Ours Ours Ours Ours GT GT
600th frame 700th frame
Figure 3: Qualitative results. We showcase WORLDMEM’s capabilities through two sets of examples.
Top: A comparison with Ground Truth (GT). WORLDMEM accurately models diverse dynamics
(e.g., rain) by conditioning on 600 past frames, ensuring temporal consistency. Bottom: Interaction
with the world. Objects like hay in the desert or wheat in the plains persist over time, with wheat
visibly growing. For the best experience, see the supplementary videos.
(SE) timestamps. The final embedding is (Figure 2 (c)):
E = Gp(PE(p)) + Gt(SE(t)), (3)
where Gp and Gt are MLPs mapping pose and time into a shared space.
State-aware Memory Attention. To support reconstruction under viewpoint and temporal shifts, we
introduce a state-aware attention mechanism that incorporates spatial-temporal cues into memory
retrieval. By conditioning attention on both visual features and state information, the model achieves
more accurate reasoning between input and memory.
Let Xq ∈ Rlq×d
denote the flattened feature map of input frames (queries), and Xk ∈ Rlk×d
the
concatenated memory features (keys and values). We first enrich both with their corresponding state
embeddings Eq and Ek:
X̃q = Xq + Eq, X̃k = Xk + Ek. (4)
Cross-attention is then applied to retrieve relevant memory content and output updated X′
:
X′
= CrossAttn(Q = pq(X̃q), K = pk(X̃k),V = pv(Xk)), (5)
where pq, pk, and pv are learnable projections.
To simplify the reasoning space, we adopt a relative state formulation. For each query frame, the
state is set to a zero reference (e.g., the pose is reset to the identity and the timestamp to zero), while
the states of key frames are normalized to relative values. This design, illustrated in Figure 2(d),
improves alignment under viewpoint changes and simplifies the learning objective.
6Full Seq. DF Ours
Initialize Turn right Turn left
Figure 4: Within context window evaluation.
The motion sequence involves turning right and
returning to the original position, showing self-
contained consistency.
DF Ours GT
Frame 0 Frame 50 Frame 100
Figure 5: Beyond context window evalua-
tion. Diffusion-Forcing suffers inconsistency
over time, while ours maintains quality and re-
covers past scenes.
Table 1: Evaluation on Minecraft
Within context window
Methods PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
Full Seq. 20.14 0.0691 13.87
DF 24.11 0.0094 13.88
Ours 25.98 0.0072 13.73
Beyond context window
Methods PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
Full Seq. / / /
DF 17.32 0.4376 51.28
Ours 23.98 0.1429 15.37
Table 2: Ablation on embedding designs
Pose type Embed. type PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
Sparse Absolute 20.67 0.2887 39.23
Dense Absolute 23.63 0.1830 29.34
Dense Relative 23.98 0.1429 15.37
Table 3: Ablation on memory retrieve strategy
Strategy PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
Random 18.32 0.3224 47.35
+ Confidence Filter 23.12 0.1863 24.33
+ Similarity Filter 23.98 0.1429 15.37
Incorporating memory into pipeline. We incorporate memory frames into the pipeline by treating
them as clean inputs during both training and inference. As shown in Figure 2 (a-b), during training,
memory frames are assigned the lowest noise level kmin, while context window frames receive
independently sampled noise levels from the range [kmin,kmax]. During inference, both memory and
context frames are assigned kmin, while the current generating frames are assigned kmax.
To restrict memory influence only to memory blocks, we apply a temporal attention mask:
Amask(i,j) =



1, i ≤ LM and j = i
1, i > LM and j ≤ i
0, otherwise
(6)
where LM is the number of memory frames that are appended before frames within the context
window. This guarantees causal attention while preventing memory units from affecting each other.
4 Experiments
Datasets. We use MineDojo (Fan et al., 2022) to create diverse training and evaluation datasets in
Minecraft, configuring diverse environments (e.g., plains, savannas, ice plains, and deserts), agent
actions, and interactions. For real-world scenes, we utilize RealEstate10K (Zhou et al., 2018) with
camera pose annotations to evaluate long-term world consistency.
Metrics. For quantitative evaluation, we employ reconstruction metrics, where the method of
obtaining ground truth (GT) varies by specific settings. We then assess the consistency and quality of
the generated videos using PSNR, LPIPS (Zhang et al., 2018), and reconstruction FID (rFID) (Heusel
et al., 2017), which collectively measure pixel-level fidelity, perceptual similarity, and overall realism.
Experimental details. For our experiments on Minecraft (Fan et al., 2022), we utilize the Oasis
(Decart et al., 2024) as the base model. Our model is trained using the Adam optimizer with a fixed
7Ours
Viewcrafter
DFoT
CameraCtrl
Figure 6: Results on RealEstate (Zhou et al., 2018). We visualize loop closure consistency over a
full camera rotation. The visual similarity between the first and last frames serves as a qualitative
indicator of 3D spatial consistency.
Table 4: Evaluation on RealEstate10K
Methods PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
CameraCtrl (He et al., 2024) 13.19 0.3328 133.81
TrajAttn (Xiao et al., 2024) 14.22 0.3698 128.36
Viewcrafter (Yu et al., 2024c) 21.72 0.1729 58.43
DFoT (Song et al., 2025) 16.42 0.2933 110.34
Ours 23.34 0.1672 43.14
learning rate of 2 × 10−5
. Training is conducted at a resolution of 640 × 360, where frames are first
encoded into a latent space via a VAE at a resolution of 32×18, then further patchified to 16×9. Our
training dataset comprises approximately 12K long videos, each containing 1500 frames, generated
from Fan et al. (2022). During training, we employ an 8-frame temporal context window alongside
an 8-frame memory window. The model is trained for approximately 500K steps using 4 GPUs, with
a batch size of 4 per GPU. For the hyperparameters specified in Algorithm 1 of the main paper, we
set the similarity threshold tr to 0.9, wo to 1, and wt to 0.2/tc. For the noise levels in Eq. (5) and Eq.
(6), we set kmin to 15 and kmax to 1000.
For our experiments on RealEstate10K (Zhou et al., 2018), we adopt DFoT (Song et al., 2025) as the
base model. The RealEstate10K dataset provides a training set of approximately 65K short video
clips. Training is conducted at a resolution of 256 × 256, with frames patchified to 128 × 128. The
model is trained for approximately 50K steps using 4 GPUs, with a batch size of 8 per GPU.
4.1 Results on Generation Benchmark
Comparisons on Minecraft Benchmark. We compare our approach with a standard full-sequence
(FullSeq.) trainingmethod(Heetal.,2024;Wangetal.,2024)andDiffusionForcing(DF)(Chenetal.,
2025). Thekeydifferencesareasfollows: thefull-sequenceconditionaldiffusiontransformer(Peebles
and Xie, 2023) maintains the same noise level during training and inference, DF introduces different
noise levels for training and inference, and our method incorporates a memory mechanism. To assess
both short-term and long-term world consistency, we conduct evaluations within and beyond the
context window. We evaluate both settings on 300 test videos. In the following experiments, the
agent’s poses are generated by the game simulator as ground truth. However, in real-world scenarios,
only the action input is available, and the pose is not directly observable. In such cases, the next-frame
pose can be predicted based on the previous scenes, past states, and the upcoming action. We explore
this design choice in the supplementary material.
Within context window. For this experiment, all methods use a context window of 16, while our
approach additionally maintains a memory window of 8. We test on customized motion scenarios
(e.g., turn left, then turn right or move forward, then backward) to assess self-contained consistency,
where the ground truth consists of previously generated frames at the same positions. As shown
in Table 1 and Figure 4, the full-sequence baseline suffers from inconsistencies even within its
own context window. DF improves consistency by enabling greater information exchange among
generated frames. Our memory-based approach achieves the best performance, demonstrating the
effectiveness of integrating a dedicated memory mechanism.
8Table 5: Ablation on sampling strategy for training
Sampling strategy PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
Small-range 19.23 0.3786 46.55
Large-range 21.11 0.3855 42.96
Progressive 23.98 0.1429 15.37
Beyond context window. In this setting, all methods use a context window of 8 and generate 100
future frames; our method further employs a memory window of 8 while initializing a 600-frame
memory bank. We compute the reconstruction error using the subsequent 100 ground truth frames
after 600 frames. Full-sequence methods can not roll out that long so we exclude it. DF exhibits
poor PSNR and LPIPS scores, indicating severe inconsistency with the ground truth beyond the
context window. Additionally, its low rFID suggests notable quality degradation. In contrast, our
memory-augmented approach consistently outperforms others across all metrics, demonstrating
superior long-term consistency and quality preservation. Figure 5 further substantiates these findings.
Figure 3 showcases WORLDMEM’s capabilities. The top section demonstrates its ability to operate
in a free action space across diverse environments. Given a 600-frame memory bank, our model
generates 100 future frames while preserving the ground truth’s actions and poses, ensuring strong
world consistency. The bottom section highlights dynamic environment interaction. By using
timestamps as embeddings, the model remembers environmental changes and captures natural event
evolution, such as plant growth over time.
Comparisons on Real Scenarios. We compare our method with prior works (He et al., 2024; Xiao
et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2024c; Song et al., 2025) on the RealEstate10K dataset (Zhou et al., 2018).
We design 5 evaluation trajectories, each starting and ending at the same pose, across 100 scenes.
The trajectory lengths range from 37 to 60 frames – exceeding the training lengths of all baselines
(maximum 25 frames).
CameraCtrl (He et al., 2024), TrajAttn (Xiao et al., 2024), and DFoT (Song et al., 2025) discard
past frames and suffer from inconsistency. Viewcrafter (Yu et al., 2024c) incorporates explicit
3D reconstruction, yielding better results, but is constrained by errors in post-processing such as
reconstruction and rendering. As shown in Table 4 and Figure 6, our approach achieves superior
performance across all metrics. However, the RealEstate dataset inherently limits the full potential of
our method, as it consists of short, non-interactive clips with limited temporal complexity. We leave
evaluation under more challenging and interactive real-world scenarios for future work.
4.2 Ablation
Embedding designs. The design of embeddings within the memory block is crucial for cross-frame
relationship modeling. We evaluate three strategies (Table 2): (1) sparse pose embedding with
absolute encoding, (2) dense pose embedding with absolute encoding, and (3) dense pose embedding
with relative encoding. Results show that dense pose embeddings (Plücker embedding) significantly
enhance all metrics, emphasizing the benefits of richer pose representations. Switching from absolute
to relative encoding further improves performance, particularly in LPIPS and rFID, by facilitating
relationship reasoning and information retrieval. As illustrated in Figure 7, absolute embeddings
accumulate errors over time, while relative embeddings maintain stability even beyond 300 frames.
Sampling strategy for training. We compare different sampling strategies during training in the
Minecraft benchmark. Small-range sampling restricts memory conditioning to frames within 2m in
the Minecraft world, while large-range sampling extends this range to 8m. Progressive sampling, on
the other hand, begins with small-range samples for initial training steps and then gradually expands
to large-range samples.
As shown in Table 5, both small-range and large-range sampling struggle with consistency and
quality, whereas progressive sampling significantly improves all metrics. This suggests that gradually
increasing difficulty during training helps the model learn to reason and effectively query information
from memory blocks.
Time condition. We ablate the effectiveness of the timestamp condition (for both embedding and
retrieval) in Table 6. We curate 100 video samples featuring placing events and evaluate whether
future generations align with event progression. As shown in the table, incorporating the time
9Results
attention are okay too.
FOV overlapping Memory block
Ours
GT
Our framework accurately generates diverse and dynamic
worlds that remains consistent with past states. Proper memory designs matter for consistent long-term rollout.
Figure 7: Long-term Generation Comparison.
This figure presents the PSNR of different abla-
tion methods compared to the ground truth over
a 300-frame sequence. The results show that
our method without memory blocks or using ran-
dom memory retrieval exhibits immediate incon-
sistencies with the ground truth. Additionally,
the model lacking relative embeddings begins
to degrade significantly beyond 100 frames. In
contrast, our full method maintains strong con-
sistency even beyond 300 frames.
Initialize Place hay Walk around Look back
w/ Time w/o Time
Figure 8: Results w/o and w/ time condition.
Without timestamps, the model fails to differ-
entiate memory units from the same location at
different times, causing errors. With time con-
ditioning, it aligns with the updated world state,
ensuring consistency.
Table 6: Ablation on time condition
Time condition PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ rFID ↓
w/o 23.17 0.1989 23.89
w/ 25.12 0.1613 16.53
condition significantly improves PSNR and LPIPS, indicating that adding temporal information helps
the model faithfully reproduce event changes in world simulation. Since events like plant growth
are inherently unpredictable, we do not conduct quantitative evaluations on such cases but instead
provide qualitative illustrations in Figure 8.
Memory retrieve strategy. We analyze memory retrieval strategies in Table 3. Random sampling
from the memory bank leads to poor performance and severe quality degradation, as evidenced by
a sharp drop in rFID and rapid divergence from the ground truth (Figure 7). The confidence-based
filtering significantly enhances consistency and generation quality. Additionally, we refine retrieval
by filtering out redundant memory units based on similarity, further improving all evaluation metrics
and demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach.
5 Limitations and Future works
Despite the effectiveness of our approach, certain issues warrant further exploration. First, we cannot
guarantee that we can always retrieve all necessary information from the memory bank In some
corner cases (e.g. , when views are blocked by obstacles), relying solely on view overlap may be
insufficient. Second, our current interaction with the environment lacks diversity and realism. In
future work, we plan to extend our models to real-world scenarios with more realistic and varied
interactions. Lastly, our memory design still entails linearly increasing memory usage, which may
impose limitations when handling extremely long sequences.
6 Conclusion
In conclusion, WORLDMEM tackles the longstanding challenge of maintaining long-term consistency
in world simulation by employing a memory bank of past frames and associated states. Its memory
attention mechanism enables accurate reconstruction of previously observed scenes, even under
large viewpoints or temporal gaps, and effectively models dynamic changes over time. Extensive
experiments in both virtual and real settings confirm WORLDMEM’s capacity for robust, immersive
world simulation. We hope our work will encourage further research on the design and applications
of memory-based world simulators.
Acknowledgements. This research is supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore,
under its NRF Fellowship Award <NRF-NRFF16-2024-0003>. This research is also supported by
NTU SUG-NAP, as well as cash and in-kind funding from NTU S-Lab and industry partner(s).
10References
Eloi Alonso, Adam Jelley, Vincent Micheli, Anssi Kanervisto, Amos J Storkey, Tim Pearce, and François Fleuret.
Diffusion for world modeling: Visual details matter in atari. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 37:58757–58791, 2025.
Amir Bar, Gaoyue Zhou, Danny Tran, Trevor Darrell, and Yann LeCun. Navigation world models, 2024.
Charles Beattie, Joel Z Leibo, Denis Teplyashin, Tom Ward, Marcus Wainwright, Heinrich Küttler, Andrew
Lefrancq, Simon Green, Víctor Valdés, Amir Sadik, et al. Deepmind lab. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.03801,
2016.
Boyuan Chen, Diego Martí Monsó, Yilun Du, Max Simchowitz, Russ Tedrake, and Vincent Sitzmann. Diffusion
forcing: Next-token prediction meets full-sequence diffusion. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 37:24081–24125, 2025.
Haoxin Chen, Menghan Xia, Yingqing He, Yong Zhang, Xiaodong Cun, Shaoshu Yang, Jinbo Xing, Yaofang Liu,
Qifeng Chen, Xintao Wang, et al. Videocrafter1: Open diffusion models for high-quality video generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.19512, 2023.
Decart, Julian Quevedo, Quinn McIntyre, Spruce Campbell, Xinlei Chen, and Robert Wachen. Oasis: A universe
in a transformer. 2024. Project website.
Linxi Fan, Guanzhi Wang, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Yuncong Yang, Haoyi Zhu, Andrew Tang, De-
An Huang, Yuke Zhu, and Anima Anandkumar. Minedojo: Building open-ended embodied agents with
internet-scale knowledge. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:18343–18362, 2022.
Ruili Feng, Han Zhang, Zhantao Yang, Jie Xiao, Zhilei Shu, Zhiheng Liu, Andy Zheng, Yukun Huang, Yu Liu,
and Hongyang Zhang. The matrix: Infinite-horizon world generation with real-time moving control. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.03568, 2024.
Ruiqi Gao, Aleksander Holynski, Philipp Henzler, Arthur Brussee, Ricardo Martin-Brualla, Pratul Srinivasan,
Jonathan T Barron, and Ben Poole. Cat3d: Create anything in 3d with multi-view diffusion models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2405.10314, 2024.
Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Zhengyang Liang, Yaohui Wang, Yu Qiao, Maneesh Agrawala, Dahua Lin,
and Bo Dai. Animatediff: Animate your personalized text-to-image diffusion models without specific tuning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04725, 2023.
David Ha and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Recurrent world models facilitate policy evolution. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 31, 2018a.
David Ha and Jürgen Schmidhuber. World models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.10122, 2018b.
Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Jimmy Ba, and Mohammad Norouzi. Dream to control: Learning behaviors
by latent imagination. arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.01603, 2019.
Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Mohammad Norouzi, and Jimmy Ba. Mastering atari with discrete world
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02193, 2020.
Hao He, Yinghao Xu, Yuwei Guo, Gordon Wetzstein, Bo Dai, Hongsheng Li, and Ceyuan Yang. Cameractrl:
Enabling camera control for text-to-video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.02101, 2024.
Roberto Henschel, Levon Khachatryan, Daniil Hayrapetyan, Hayk Poghosyan, Vahram Tadevosyan, Zhangyang
Wang, Shant Navasardyan, and Humphrey Shi. Streamingt2v: Consistent, dynamic, and extendable long
video generation from text. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.14773, 2024.
Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner, Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by
a two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilibrium. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 30, 2017.
Yining Hong, Beide Liu, Maxine Wu, Yuanhao Zhai, Kai-Wei Chang, Linjie Li, Kevin Lin, Chung-Ching Lin,
Jianfeng Wang, Zhengyuan Yang, Ying Nian Wu, and Lijuan Wang Wang. Slowfast-vgen: Slow-fast learning
for action-driven long video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.23277, 2024.
Anthony Hu, Lloyd Russell, Hudson Yeo, Zak Murez, George Fedoseev, Alex Kendall, Jamie Shotton, and Gian-
luca Corrado. Gaia-1: A generative world model for autonomous driving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.17080,
2023.
11Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu
Chen, et al. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. ICLR, 1(2):3, 2022.
Hanwen Jiang, Hao Tan, Peng Wang, Haian Jin, Yue Zhao, Sai Bi, Kai Zhang, Fujun Luan, Kalyan Sunkavalli,
Qixing Huang, et al. Rayzer: A self-supervised large view synthesis model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.00702,
2025.
Yang Jin, Zhicheng Sun, Ningyuan Li, Kun Xu, Hao Jiang, Nan Zhuang, Quzhe Huang, Yang Song, Yadong
Mu, and Zhouchen Lin. Pyramidal flow matching for efficient video generative modeling. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.05954, 2024.
Jihwan Kim, Junoh Kang, Jinyoung Choi, and Bohyung Han. FIFO-diffusion: Generating infinite videos from
text without training. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems,
2024.
Dan Kondratyuk, Lijun Yu, Xiuye Gu, José Lezama, Jonathan Huang, Grant Schindler, Rachel Hornung,
Vighnesh Birodkar, Jimmy Yan, Ming-Chang Chiu, Krishna Somandepalli, Hassan Akbari, Yair Alon, Yong
Cheng, Josh Dillon, Agrim Gupta, Meera Hahn, Anja Hauth, David Hendon, Alonso Martinez, David Minnen,
Mikhail Sirotenko, Kihyuk Sohn, Xuan Yang, Hartwig Adam, Ming-Hsuan Yang, Irfan Essa, Huisheng
Wang, David A. Ross, Bryan Seybold, and Lu Jiang. Videopoet: A large language model for zero-shot video
generation, 2024.
Hanwen Liang, Junli Cao, Vidit Goel, Guocheng Qian, Sergei Korolev, Demetri Terzopoulos, Konstantinos N
Plataniotis, Sergey Tulyakov, and Jian Ren. Wonderland: Navigating 3d scenes from a single image. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.12091, 2024.
Fangfu Liu, Wenqiang Sun, Hanyang Wang, Yikai Wang, Haowen Sun, Junliang Ye, Jun Zhang, and Yueqi
Duan. Reconx: Reconstruct any scene from sparse views with video diffusion model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.16767, 2024.
Xin Ma, Yaohui Wang, Gengyun Jia, Xinyuan Chen, Ziwei Liu, Yuan-Fang Li, Cunjian Chen, and Yu Qiao.
Latte: Latent diffusion transformer for video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03048, 2024.
OpenAI. Video generation models as world simulators. https://openai.com/research/
video-generation-models-as-world-simulators, 2024.
Jack Parker-Holder, Philip Ball, Jake Bruce, Vibhavari Dasagi, Kristian Holsheimer, Christos Kaplanis, Alexan-
dre Moufarek, Guy Scully, Jeremy Shar, Jimmy Shi, Stephen Spencer, Jessica Yung, Michael Dennis, Sultan
Kenjeyev, Shangbang Long, Vlad Mnih, Harris Chan, Maxime Gazeau, Bonnie Li, Fabio Pardo, Luyu Wang,
Lei Zhang, Frederic Besse, Tim Harley, Anna Mitenkova, Jane Wang, Jeff Clune, Demis Hassabis, Raia
Hadsell, Adrian Bolton, Satinder Singh, and Tim Rocktäschel. Genie 2: A large-scale foundation world
model. 2024.
William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
international conference on computer vision, pages 4195–4205, 2023.
Tanzila Rahman, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Sergey Tulyakov, Shweta Mahajan, and Leonid Sigal. Make-a-story:
Visual memory conditioned consistent story generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 2493–2502, 2023.
Xuanchi Ren, Tianchang Shen, Jiahui Huang, Huan Ling, Yifan Lu, Merlin Nimier-David, Thomas Müller,
Alexander Keller, Sanja Fidler, and Jun Gao. Gen3c: 3d-informed world-consistent video generation with
precise camera control. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2025.
Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Henning Meyer, Etienne Pot, Urs Bergmann, Klaus Greff, Noha Radwan, Suhani Vora,
Mario Lučić, Daniel Duckworth, Alexey Dosovitskiy, et al. Scene representation transformer: Geometry-free
novel view synthesis through set-latent scene representations. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 6229–6238, 2022.
Vincent Sitzmann, Semon Rezchikov, Bill Freeman, Josh Tenenbaum, and Fredo Durand. Light field networks:
Neural scene representations with single-evaluation rendering. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 34:19313–19325, 2021.
Kiwhan Song, Boyuan Chen, Max Simchowitz, Yilun Du, Russ Tedrake, and Vincent Sitzmann. History-guided
video diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.06764, 2025.
12Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben Poole.
Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.13456,
2020.
Dani Valevski, Yaniv Leviathan, Moab Arar, and Shlomi Fruchter. Diffusion models are real-time game engines.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.14837, 2024.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser,
and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need, 2017.
Hengyi Wang and Lourdes Agapito. 3d reconstruction with spatial memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.16061,
2024.
Jiuniu Wang, Hangjie Yuan, Dayou Chen, Yingya Zhang, Xiang Wang, and Shiwei Zhang. Modelscope
text-to-video technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06571, 2023a.
Jing Wang, Fengzhuo Zhang, Xiaoli Li, Vincent YF Tan, Tianyu Pang, Chao Du, Aixin Sun, and Zhuoran
Yang. Error analyses of auto-regressive video diffusion models: A unified framework. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.10704, 2025.
Yaohui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Xin Ma, Shangchen Zhou, Ziqi Huang, Yi Wang, Ceyuan Yang, Yinan He, Jiashuo
Yu, Peiqing Yang, et al. Lavie: High-quality video generation with cascaded latent diffusion models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.15103, 2023b.
Zhouxia Wang, Ziyang Yuan, Xintao Wang, Yaowei Li, Tianshui Chen, Menghan Xia, Ping Luo, and Ying
Shan. Motionctrl: A unified and flexible motion controller for video generation. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2024
Conference Papers, pages 1–11, 2024.
Sibo Wu, Congrong Xu, Binbin Huang, Andreas Geiger, and Anpei Chen. Genfusion: Closing the loop between
reconstruction and generation via videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.21219, 2025a.
Tong Wu, Zhihao Fan, Xiao Liu, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Jian Jiao, Hai-Tao Zheng, Juntao Li, Zhongyu Wei,
Jian Guo, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. Ar-diffusion: Auto-regressive diffusion model for text generation,
2023.
Xindi Wu, Uriel Singer, Zhaojiang Lin, Andrea Madotto, Xide Xia, Yifan Xu, Paul Crook, Xin Luna Dong, and
Seungwhan Moon. Corgi: Cached memory guided video generation. In 2025 IEEE/CVF Winter Conference
on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), pages 4585–4594. IEEE, 2025b.
Zeqi Xiao, Wenqi Ouyang, Yifan Zhou, Shuai Yang, Lei Yang, Jianlou Si, and Xingang Pan. Trajectory attention
for fine-grained video motion control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.19324, 2024.
Jingjing Xu, Xu Sun, Zhiyuan Zhang, Guangxiang Zhao, and Junyang Lin. Understanding and improving layer
normalization. Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.
Mengjiao Yang, Yilun Du, Kamyar Ghasemipour, Jonathan Tompson, Dale Schuurmans, and Pieter Abbeel.
Learning interactive real-world simulators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06114, 1(2):6, 2023.
Tianwei Yin, Qiang Zhang, Richard Zhang, William T Freeman, Fredo Durand, Eli Shechtman, and Xun Huang.
From slow bidirectional to fast causal video generators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.07772, 2024.
Hong-Xing Yu, Haoyi Duan, Charles Herrmann, William T Freeman, and Jiajun Wu. Wonderworld: Interactive
3d scene generation from a single image. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09394, 2024a.
Hong-Xing Yu, Haoyi Duan, Junhwa Hur, Kyle Sargent, Michael Rubinstein, William T Freeman, Forrester
Cole, Deqing Sun, Noah Snavely, Jiajun Wu, et al. Wonderjourney: Going from anywhere to everywhere. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 6658–6667,
2024b.
Jiwen Yu, Yiran Qin, Haoxuan Che, Quande Liu, Xintao Wang, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, Kun Gai, Hao Chen,
and Xihui Liu. A survey of interactive generative video. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.21853, 2025a.
Jiwen Yu, Yiran Qin, Haoxuan Che, Quande Liu, Xintao Wang, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, and Xihui Liu. Position:
Interactive generative video as next-generation game engine. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.17359, 2025b.
Jiwen Yu, Yiran Qin, Xintao Wang, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, and Xihui Liu. Gamefactory: Creating new games
with generative interactive videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.08325, 2025c.
13Wangbo Yu, Jinbo Xing, Li Yuan, Wenbo Hu, Xiaoyu Li, Zhipeng Huang, Xiangjun Gao, Tien-Tsin Wong, Ying
Shan, and Yonghong Tian. Viewcrafter: Taming video diffusion models for high-fidelity novel view synthesis.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.02048, 2024c.
Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shechtman, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness
of deep features as a perceptual metric. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pages 586–595, 2018.
Longtao Zheng, Yifan Zhang, Hanzhong Guo, Jiachun Pan, Zhenxiong Tan, Jiahao Lu, Chuanxin Tang, Bo An,
and Shuicheng Yan. Memo: Memory-guided diffusion for expressive talking video generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.04448, 2024a.
Zangwei Zheng, Xiangyu Peng, Tianji Yang, Chenhui Shen, Shenggui Li, Hongxin Liu, Yukun Zhou, Tianyi Li,
and Yang You. Open-sora: Democratizing efficient video production for all, 2024b.
Tinghui Zhou, Richard Tucker, John Flynn, Graham Fyffe, and Noah Snavely. Stereo magnification: Learning
view synthesis using multiplane images. In SIGGRAPH, 2018.
14NeurIPS Paper Checklist
The checklist is designed to encourage best practices for responsible machine learning research,
addressing issues of reproducibility, transparency, research ethics, and societal impact. Do not remove
the checklist: The papers not including the checklist will be desk rejected. The checklist should
follow the references and follow the (optional) supplemental material. The checklist does NOT count
towards the page limit.
Please read the checklist guidelines carefully for information on how to answer these questions. For
each question in the checklist:
• You should answer [Yes] , [No] , or [NA] .
• [NA] means either that the question is Not Applicable for that particular paper or the
relevant information is Not Available.
• Please provide a short (1–2 sentence) justification right after your answer (even for NA).
The checklist answers are an integral part of your paper submission. They are visible to the
reviewers, area chairs, senior area chairs, and ethics reviewers. You will be asked to also include it
(after eventual revisions) with the final version of your paper, and its final version will be published
with the paper.
The reviewers of your paper will be asked to use the checklist as one of the factors in their evaluation.
While "[Yes] " is generally preferable to "[No] ", it is perfectly acceptable to answer "[No] " provided a
proper justification is given (e.g., "error bars are not reported because it would be too computationally
expensive" or "we were unable to find the license for the dataset we used"). In general, answering
"[No] " or "[NA] " is not grounds for rejection. While the questions are phrased in a binary way, we
acknowledge that the true answer is often more nuanced, so please just use your best judgment and
write a justification to elaborate. All supporting evidence can appear either in the main paper or the
supplemental material, provided in appendix. If you answer [Yes] to a question, in the justification
please point to the section(s) where related material for the question can be found.
1. Claims
Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The abstract and introduction clearly state the claims: Long-term consistent
world generation with memory.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
made in the paper.
• The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
NA answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
• The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings.
• It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
are not attained by the paper.
2. Limitations
Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: It is discussed in the supplemental material due to page limitations.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
• The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
15• The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
modelwell-specification, asymptoticapproximationsonlyholdinglocally). Theauthors
should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
implications would be.
• The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
• The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
technical jargon.
• The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
and how they scale with dataset size.
• If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
address problems of privacy and fairness.
• While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an impor-
tant role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
3. Theory assumptions and proofs
Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
a complete (and correct) proof?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not include theoretical results.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
• All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-
referenced.
• All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
• The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
proof sketch to provide intuition.
• Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
• Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
4. Experimental result reproducibility
Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main ex-
perimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We discuss our experimental setting in the experiments sections. More details
are disclosed in the supplemental material.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
whether the code and data are provided or not.
• If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
16• Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
appropriate to the research performed.
• While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submis-
sions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
nature of the contribution. For example
(a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
to reproduce that algorithm.
(b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
the architecture clearly and fully.
(c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
eitherbeawaytoaccessthismodelforreproducingtheresultsorawaytoreproduce
the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
the dataset).
(d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
5. Open access to data and code
Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
material?
Answer: [No]
Justification: We do not provide open access to the data and code in the supplemental
material, but will release codes and datasets publicly.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
• Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).
• The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
• The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
• At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).
• Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
6. Experimental setting/details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
17Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We specify the experimental setting in the experiment section, and provide
more details about training in the supplemental material
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
• The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.
7. Experiment statistical significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: [No]
Justification: We do not report error bars. However, our results are obtained from large
statistics.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.
• The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).
• The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
• The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
• It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.
• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferablyreporta2-sigmaerrorbarthanstatethattheyhavea96%CI,ifthehypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8. Experiments compute resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We provide more information about computing resources in the supplemental
material.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
189. Code of ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We follow the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid-
eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10. Broader impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: There is no societal impact of the work performed.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deploymentoftechnologiesthatcouldmakedecisionsthatunfairlyimpactspecific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out
that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train
models that generate Deepfakes faster.
• The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is
being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the
technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following
from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology.
• If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation
strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks,
mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from
feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML).
11. Safeguards
Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible
release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pretrained language models,
image generators, or scraped datasets)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper poses no such risks
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper poses no such risks.
• Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
safety filters.
19• Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
• We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
faith effort.
12. Licenses for existing assets
Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
properly respected?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We properly credit and use the datasets and codes in the paper.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.
• The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
• The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
URL.
• The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
• For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
service of that source should be provided.
• If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the
package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets
has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the
license of a dataset.
• For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
• If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
the asset’s creators.
13. New assets
Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
provided alongside the assets?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We introduce new datasets in the paper and will release them publicly and
document them.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
• Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
limitations, etc.
• The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
asset is used.
• At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
14. Crowdsourcing and research with human subjects
Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
well as details about compensation (if any)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
20• Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribu-
tion of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
included in the main paper.
• According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
collector.
15. Institutional review board (IRB) approvals or equivalent for research with human
subjects
Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
institution) were obtained?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
should clearly state this in the paper.
• We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
guidelines for their institution.
• For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.
16. Declaration of LLM usage
Question: Does the paper describe the usage of LLMs if it is an important, original, or
non-standard component of the core methods in this research? Note that if the LLM is used
only for writing, editing, or formatting purposes and does not impact the core methodology,
scientific rigorousness, or originality of the research, declaration is not required.
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The core method development in this research does not involve LLMs as any
important, original, or non-standard components.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the core method development in this research does not
involve LLMs as any important, original, or non-standard components.
• Please refer to our LLM policy (https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2025/LLM)
for what should or should not be described.
21