I3DM
I3DM: Implicit 3D-aware Memory Retrieval and Injection  for Consistent Video Scene Generation
Arxiv, 2026
Jia Li1,2,*
Han Yan2,3
Yihang Chen1,3
Siqi Li2
Xibin Song2
Yifu Wang2
Jianfei Cai1
Tien-Tsin Wong1
Pan Ji2
1Monash University
2Vertex Lab
3Shanghai Jiao Tong University
*Work done during internship at Vertex Lab
Paper
Codes
Abstract
Maintaining scene consistency when a generated video revisits an earlier viewpoint remains challenging. Existing solutions rely either on explicitly constructing 3D geometry, which suffers from error accumulation and scale ambiguity, or on naive camera Field-of-View (FoV) retrieval, which typically fails under complex occlusions. To overcome these limitations, we propose I3DM, a novel implicit 3D-aware memory mechanism for consistent video scene generation that bypasses explicit 3D reconstruction. At the core of our approach is a 3D-aware memory retrieval strategy, which leverages the intermediate features of a pre-trained Feed-Forward Novel View Synthesis (FF-NVS) model to score view relevance, enabling robust retrieval even in highly occluded scenarios. Furthermore, to fully utilize the retrieved historical frames, we introduce a 3D-aligned memory injection module. This module implicitly warps historical content to the target view and adaptively conditions the generation on reliable warping regions, leading to improved revisit consistency and accurate camera control.
Cycle-Trajectory Results
Motivation
Explicit geometry-based memory suffers from scale ambiguity and accumulated reconstruction errors, while Field-of-View retrieval can select irrelevant frames under occlusion. Both issues lead to inaccurate camera navigation and inconsistent revisits.
Method
I3DM first scores historical frames with 3D-aware features from a pre-trained NVS model and retrieves the views most relevant to the target camera. An Adaptive NVS Module then aligns the selected memory and injects reliable regions into the Wan-DiT backbone for consistent generation.
Comparing with Other Retrieval Methods
Results of Self-Captured Scenes
Citation
@article{li2026i3dm,
title={I3DM: Implicit 3D-aware Memory Retrieval and Injection for Consistent Video Scene Generation},
author={Li, Jia and Yan, Han and Chen, Yihang and Li, Siqi and Song, Xibin and Wang, Yifu and Cai, Jianfei and Wong, Tien-Tsin and Ji, Pan},
journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.23413},
year={2026}
}
Acknowledgements
The website template was borrowed from BakedSDF.
