     Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured
                Multi-View Stereo

                  Johannes L. Schönberger1 , Enliang Zheng2 ,
                    Marc Pollefeys1,3 , Jan-Michael Frahm2
                    1
                    ETH Zürich, 2 UNC Chapel Hill, 3 Microsoft
             {jsch,pomarc}@inf.ethz.ch, {ezheng,jmf}@cs.unc.edu



      Abstract. This work presents a Multi-View Stereo system for robust
      and efficient dense modeling from unstructured image collections. Our
      core contributions are the joint estimation of depth and normal infor-
      mation, pixelwise view selection using photometric and geometric pri-
      ors, and a multi-view geometric consistency term for the simultaneous
      refinement and image-based depth and normal fusion. Experiments on
      benchmarks and large-scale Internet photo collections demonstrate state-
      of-the-art performance in terms of accuracy, completeness, and efficiency.




 Fig. 1. Reconstructions for Louvre, Todai-ji, Paris Opera, and Astronomical Clock.




1   Introduction

Large-scale 3D reconstruction from Internet photos has seen a tremendous evolu-
tion in sparse modeling using Structure-from-Motion (SfM) [1,10,21,37,39,40,45,
61] and in dense modeling using Multi-View Stereo (MVS) [2,12,13,15,42,43,59].
Many applications benefit from a dense scene representation, e.g., classifica-
tion [44], image-based rendering [8], localization [9], etc. Despite the widespread
use of MVS, the efficient and robust estimation of accurate, complete, and aes-
thetically pleasing dense models in uncontrolled environments remains a chal-
lenging task. Dense pixelwise correspondence search is the core problem of stereo
methods. Recovering correct correspondence is challenging even in controlled
environments with known viewing geometry and illumination. In uncontrolled
settings, e.g., where the input consists of crowd-sourced images, it is crucial to
2      J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

account for various factors, such as heterogeneous resolution and illumination,
scene variability, unstructured viewing geometry, and mis-registered views.
    Our proposed approach improves the state of the art in dense reconstruc-
tion for unstructured images. This work leverages the optimization framework
by Zheng et al. [59] to propose the following core contributions: (1) Pixelwise
normal estimation embedded into an improved PatchMatch sampling scheme.
(2) Pixelwise view selection using triangulation angle, incident angle, and image
resolution-based geometric priors. (3) Integration of a “temporal” view selection
smoothness term. (4) Adaptive window support through bilateral photometric
consistency for improved occlusion boundary behavior. (5) Introduction of a
multi-view geometric consistency term for simultaneous depth/normal estima-
tion and image-based fusion. (6) Reliable depth/normal filtering and fusion.
Outlier-free and accurate depth/normal estimates further allow for direct mesh-
ing of the resulting point cloud. We achieve state-of-the-art results on bench-
marks (Middlebury [41], Strecha [48]). To demonstrate the advantages of our
method in a more challenging setting, we process SfM models of a world-scale
Internet dataset [21]. The entire algorithm is released to the public as an open-
source implementation as part of [39] at https://github.com/colmap/colmap.


2   Related Work

Stereo methods have advanced in terms of accuracy, completeness, scalability,
and benchmarking – from the minimal stereo setup with two views [25,28,36,38]
to multi-view methods [7, 11–15, 26, 59]. Furthermore, the joint estimation of
semantics [20], dynamic scene reconstruction [27,31,34,35,50], and benchmarking
[38, 41, 42, 48]. Our method performs MVS with pixelwise view selection for
depth/normal estimation and fusion. Here, we only review the most related
approaches, within the large body of research in multi-view and two-view stereo.
    MVS leverages multiple views to overcome the inherent occlusion problems
of two-view approaches [49, 53, 62]. Accordingly, view selection plays a crucial
role in the effectiveness of MVS. Kang et al. [29] heuristically select the best
views with minimal cost (usually 50%) for computing the depth of each pixel.
Strecha et al. [46, 47] probabilistically model scene visibility combined with a
local depth smoothness assumption [46] in a Markov Random Field for pixel-
wise view selection. Different from our approach, their method is prohibitive in
memory usage and does neither include normal estimation nor photometric and
geometric priors for view selection. Gallup et al. [16] select different views and
resolutions on a per-pixel basis to achieve a constant depth error. In contrast,
our method simultaneously considers a variety of photometric and geometric pri-
ors improving upon the robustness and accuracy of the recently proposed depth
estimation framework by Zheng et al. [59]. Their method is most closely related
to our approach and is reviewed in more detail in Section 3.
    MVS methods commonly use a fronto-parallel scene structure assumption.
Gallup et al. [17] observed the distortion of the cost function caused by structure
that deviates from this prior and combats it by using multiple sweeping directions
                Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo        3

deduced from the sparse reconstruction. Earlier approaches [3, 6, 55] similarly
account for the surface normal in stereo matching. Recently, Bleyer et al. [5] use
PatchMatch to estimate per-pixel normals to compensate for the distortion of the
cost function. In contrast to these approaches, we propose to estimate normals
not in isolation but also considering the photometric and geometric constraints
guiding the matchabilty of surface texture and its accuracy. By probabilistically
modeling the contribution of individual viewing rays towards reliable surface
recovery, we achieve significantly improved depth and normal estimates.
     Depth map fusion integrates multiple depth maps into a unified and aug-
mented scene representation while mitigating any inconsistencies among indi-
vidual estimates. Jancoseck et al. [26] fuses multiple depth estimates into a sur-
face and, by evaluating visibility in 3D space, they also attempt to reconstruct
parts that are not directly supported by depth measurements. In contrast, our
method aims at directly maximizing the estimated surface support in the depth
maps and achieves higher completeness and accuracy (see Section 5). Goesele
et al. [19] propose a method that explicitly targets at the reconstruction from
crowd-sourced images. They first select camera clusters for each surface and ad-
just their resolution to the smallest common resolution. For depth estimation,
they then use the four most suitable images for each pixel. As already noted in
Zheng et al. [59], this early pre-selection of reduced camera clusters may lead to
less complete results and is sensitive to noise. Our method avoids this restrictive
selection scheme by allowing dataset-wide, pixelwise sampling for view selection.
Zach et al. [56] proposed a variational depth map formulation that enabled par-
allelized computation on the GPU. However, their volumetric approach imposes
substantial memory requirements and is prohibitive for the large-scale scenes tar-
geted by our method. Beyond these methods, there are several large-scale dense
reconstruction and fusion methods for crowd-sourced images, e.g., Furukawa et
al. [12] and Gallup et al. [18,60], who all perform heuristic pre-selection of views,
which leads to reduced completeness and accuracy as compared to our method.


3   Review of Joint View Selection and Depth Estimation
This section reviews the framework by Zheng et al. [59] to introduce notation
and context for our contributions. Since their method processes each row/column
independently, we limit the description to a single image row with l as the column
index. Their method estimates the depth θl for a pixel in the reference image
X ref from a set of unstructured source images X src = {X m | m = 1 . . . M }. The
estimate θl maximizes the color similarity between a patch Xlref in the reference
image and homography-warped patches Xlm in non-occluded source images. The
binary indicator variable Zlm ∈ {0, 1} defines the set of non-occluded source
images as X̄lsrc = {X m | Zlm = 1}. To sample X̄lsrc , they infer the probability
that the reference patch Xlref at depth θl is visible at the source patch Xlm using
                                              (1−ρm       2
                                 (                         
                                    1             l (θl ))
                                      exp   −       2         if Zlm = 1
             P (Xlm |Zlm , θl ) = N A             2σρ
                                                                                (1)
                                   1
                                   NU                         if Zlm = 0,
4       J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

            R1               2
where A = −1 exp{− (1−ρ) 2σρ2 }dρ and N is a constant canceling out in the infer-
ence. In the case of occlusion, the color distributions of the two patches are unre-
lated and follow the uniform distribution U in the range [−1, 1] with probability
density 0.5. Otherwise, ρm l describes the color similarity between the reference
and source patch based on normalized cross-correlation (NCC) using fronto-
parallel homography warping. The variable σρ determines a soft threshold for
ρm
 l on the reference patch being visible in the source image. The state-transition
matrix from the preceding pixel l − 1 to the current pixel l is P (Zlm |Zl−1 m
                                                                                 ) =
   γ 1−γ  
  1−γ γ     and encourages spatially smooth occlusion indicators, where a larger
γ enforces neighboring pixels to have more similar indicators. Given reference
and source images X = {X ref , X src }, the inference problem then boils down to
recover, for all L pixels in the reference image, the depths θ = {θl | l = 1 . . . L}
and the occlusion indicators Z = {Zlm | l = 1 . . . L, m = 1 . . . M } from the
posterior distribution P (Z, θ|X) with a uniform prior P (θ). To solve the com-
putationally infeasible Bayesian approach of first computing the joint probability
                                L Y
                                Y M
                P (X, Z, θ) =          [P (Zlm |Zl−1
                                                 m
                                                     )P (Xlm |Zlm , θl )]        (2)
                                l=1 m=1

and then normalizing over P (X), Zheng et al. use variational inference the-
ory to develop a framework that is a variant of the generalized expectation-
maximization (GEM) algorithm [33]. For the inference of Z in the hidden Markov-
Chain, the forward-backward algorithm is used in the E step of GEM. PatchMatch-
inspired [5] sampling serves as an efficient scheme for the inference of θ in the M
step of GEM. Their method iteratively solves for Z with fixed θ and vice versa
using interleaved row-/columnwise propagation. Full depth inference
                                   XM
                    θlopt = argmin          Pl (m)(1 − ρm   ∗
                                                        l (θl ))                 (3)
                                θl∗       m=1

has high computational cost if M is large as PatchMatch requires the NCC to be
                                              q(Zlm =1)
computed many times. The value Pl (m) = PM q(Z       m =1) denotes the probability
                                                m=1     l
of the patch in source image m being similar to the reference patch, while q(Z)
is an approximation of the real posterior P (Z). Source images with small Pl (m)
are non-informative for the depth inference, hence Zheng et al. propose a Monte
Carlo based approximation of θlopt for view selection
                                      1 X
                     θ̂lopt = argmin           (1 − ρm   ∗
                                                     l (θl ))                 (4)
                                θl∗  |S|   m∈S

by sampling a subset of images S ⊂ {1 . . . M } from the distribution Pl (m) and
hence only computing the NCC for the most similar source images.

4   Algorithm
In this section, we describe our novel algorithm that leverages the optimization
framework reviewed in the previous section. We first present the individual terms
                  Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo                 5

of the proposed likelihood function, while Section 4.6 explains their integration
into the overall optimization framework.

4.1    Normal Estimation
Zheng et al. [59] map between the reference and source images using fronto-
parallel homographies leading to artifacts for oblique structures [17]. In contrast,
we estimate per-pixel depth θl and normals nl ∈ R3 , knl k = 1. A patch at
xl ∈ P2 in the reference image warps to a source patch at xm                   2
                                                                          l ∈ P using
  m                              m      m     −1 m T    −1             m
xl = Hl xl with Hl = K (R − dl t nl )K . Here, R ∈ SO(3) and
tm ∈ R3 define the relative transformation from the reference to the source
camera frame. K and K m denote the calibration of the reference and source
images, respectively, and dl = nTl pl is the orthogonal distance from the reference
image to the plane at the point pl = θl K −1 xl .
    Given no knowledge of the scene, we assume a uniform prior P (N ) in the
inference of the normals N = {nl | l = 1 . . . L}. Estimating N requires to change
the terms P (Xlm |Zlm , θl ) and Pl (m) from Eqs. (1) and (4) to also depend on N ,
as the color similarity ρm    l is now based on slanted rather than fronto-parallel
homographies. Consequently, the optimal depth and normal are chosen as
                                            1 X
                (θ̂lopt , n̂opt
                            l ) = argmin             (1 − ρm   ∗    ∗
                                                           l (θl , nl )).         (5)
                                   θl∗ ,n∗
                                         l
                                           |S|   m∈S


    To sample unbiased random normals in PatchMatch, we follow the approach
by Galliani et al. [15]. With the additional two unknown normal parameters,
the number of unknowns per pixel in the M step of GEM increases from one to
three. While this in theory requires PatchMatch to generate many more samples,
we propose an efficient propagation scheme that maintains the convergence rate
of depth-only inference. Since depth θl and normal nl define a local planar
                                          prp
surface in 3D, we propagate the depth θl−1     of the intersection of the ray of the
current pixel xl with the local surface of the previous pixel (θl−1 , nl−1 ). This
exploits first-order smoothness of the surface (cf. [22]) and thereby drastically
speeds up the optimization since correct depths propagate more quickly along the
surface. Moreover, different from the typical iterative refinement of normals using
bisection as an intermediate step between full sweeps of propagations (cf. [5,
15]), we generate a small set of additional plane hypotheses at each propagation
step. We observe that the current best depth and normal parameters can have
the following states: neither of them, one of them, or both of them have the
optimal solution or are close to it. By combining random and perturbed depths
with current best normals and vice versa, we increase the chance of sampling
the correct solution. More formally, at each step in PatchMatch, we choose the
current best estimate for pixel l according to Eq. (4) from the set of hypotheses
                 prp                                                    prt              prt
  {(θl , nl ), (θl−1 , nl−1 ), (θlrnd , nl ), (θl , nrnd    rnd  rnd
                                                     l ), (θl , nl ), (θl , nl ), (θl , nl )},
                                                                                             (6)
where θlrnd and nrnd   l  denote randomly generated samples. To refine the current
parameters when they are close to the optimal solution, we perturb the current
6       J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

                                          1                                                                  1                                                                    1




                   Triangulation Prior
               3




                                                                                         Resolution Prior                                                       Incident Prior
                                                                                                                                                                                                              σκ = 15◦
                                                                                                                                                                                                              σκ = 30◦
                                                                         ᾱ = 2◦
                                                                                                                                                                                                              σκ = 45◦
                                         0.5                             ᾱ = 5◦                            0.5                                                                  0.5
                                                                         ᾱ = 10◦
                                                                         ᾱ = 15◦
                                          0                                                                  0                                                                    0
1          2                                   0        5           10              15                            0       1       2       3        4        5                          0   50        100          150
       R                                           Triangulation angle [deg]                                          Relative resolution b m with bl = 1                                  Incident angle [deg]
                                                                                                                                            l




Fig. 2. Left: Illustration of geometric priors for reference view (R) and three source
views (1-3). View 1 has similar resolution (red), and good triangulation (green) and
incident angle (blue), while view 2 is oblique and has lower resolution. View 3 cannot
see the patch. Right: Geometric prior likelihood functions with different parameters.


estimate as θlprt = (1 ± )θl and nprt
                                   l   = R nl . The variable  describes a small
depth perturbation, and the rotation matrix R ∈ SO(3) perturbs the normal
direction by a small angle subject to pTl nprt
                                           l   < 0. Normal estimation improves
both the reconstruction completeness and accuracy, while the new sampling
scheme leads to both fast convergence and more accurate estimates (Section 5).


4.2   Geometric Priors for View Selection

This section describes how to incorporate geometric priors in the pixelwise view
selection for improved robustness in particular for unstructured imagery. On a
high level, the proposed priors encourage the sampling of source images with
sufficient baseline (Triangulation Prior ), similar resolution (Resolution Prior ),
and non-oblique viewing direction (Incident Prior ). In contrast to prior work
(e.g. [12, 18, 19]), which decouples inference and per-image geometric priors by
pre-selecting source images, we integrate geometric priors on a per-pixel basis
into the inference. The motivation for per-pixel geometric priors is similar to in-
ferring per-pixel occlusion indicators Z. Since the pre-selection of source images
is based on a sparse and therefore incomplete scene representation, the selected
source views are often sub-optimal. Occlusion boundaries, triangulation angles,
relative image resolution, and incident angle can vary significantly between a sin-
gle pair of reference and source images (Fig. 2). Incorporating geometric priors in
addition to the photometric occlusion indicators Z leads to a more comprehen-
sive and robust pixelwise view selection. In the following, we detail the proposed
priors and explain their integration into the optimization framework.
    Triangulation Prior. Zheng et al. [59] sample source images purely based
on color similarity. Consequently, the more similar the reference patch is to the
source patch, the higher the selection probability in the view sampling. Nat-
urally, image pairs with small viewpoint change, which coincides with small
baseline, have high color similarity. However, image pairs with zero baseline
do not carry information for depth inference, because reconstructed points can
arbitrarily move along the viewing ray without changing the color similarity.
Pure photometric view selection favors to sample these uninformative views.
To eliminate this degenerate case, we calculate the triangulation angle αlm =
               m T
       (pl −c ) pl
cos−1 kp     m
         l −c kkpl k
                     with cm = −(Rm )T tm and αlm ∈ [0, π) between two intersect-
                Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo           7

ing viewing rays as a measure of the stability of the reconstructed point pl . Em-
                                                                      (min(ᾱ,αm
                                                                               l )−ᾱ)
                                                                                       2
pirically, we choose the following likelihood function P (αlm ) = 1−         ᾱ2
to describe how informative a source image is for reconstructing the correct point.
Intuitively, this function assigns low likelihood to source images for which the
triangulation angle is below an a priori threshold ᾱ. Otherwise, no additional
view selection preference is imposed (see Fig. 2).
    Resolution Prior. Unstructured datasets usually contain images captured
by a multitude of camera types under diverse viewing geometry. As a conse-
quence, images capture scene objects in a wide range of resolutions. To avoid
under- and oversampling in computing ρm      l , the patches in the reference and
source image should have similar size and shape [19]. Similar size is favorable as
it avoids comparing images captured at vastly different resolutions, e.g., due to
different zoom factors or distance to the object. Similar shape avoids significantly
distorted source patches caused by different viewing directions. In the case of
different shape, areas within the same source patch have different sampling rates.
An approximate measure of the relative size and shape between the reference
and source patch is βlm = bbml ∈ R+ , where bl and bm   l denote the areas covered
                              l
by the corresponding patches. In our implementation, the reference patch is al-
ways square. If the size and shape of the patches is similar, βlm is close to the
value 1. To quantify the similarity in resolution between two images, we propose
the likelihood function P (βlm ) = min(βlm , (βlm )−1 ) and integrate it into Pl (m).
Note that, at increased computational cost, undersampling could alternatively
be handled by adaptive resampling of the source image patch.
    Incident Prior. The inferred per-pixel normals provide geometric constraints
on the solution space that we encode in the form of a prior. The estimated plane
restricts the possible space of source camera locations and orientations. By con-
struction, the camera location can only lie in the positive half-space defined by
the plane (θl , nm
                 l ), while the camera viewing direction must face towards the
opposite normal direction. Otherwise, it is geometrically impossible for the cam-
era to observe the surface. To satisfy this geometric visibility constraint, the
                                                           m T m
                                                  −1 (pl −c ) nl
incident angle of the source camera κm    l = cos    kpl −cm kknm   with κml ∈ [0, π)
                                                                l k
                                 m      π
must be in the interval 0 ≤ κl < 2 . In our method, the likelihood function
                 κm 2
P (κml ) = exp(− 2σκ
                    l
                      2 ) encodes the belief in whether this geometric constraint is
                                                                                   π
satisfied. This associates some belief with a view even in the case where κm   l ≥ 2.
The reason for this is, that in the initial inference stage, the variables θl and nm
                                                                                   l
are unknown and hence the geometric constraints are likely not yet correct.
    Integration. Fig. 2 visualizes the geometric priors, and Fig. 4 shows exam-
ples of specific priors over all reference image pixels. We integrate the priors into
the inference as additional terms in the Monte-Carlo view sampling distribution

                             q(Z m = 1)q(αlm )q(βlm )q(κm
                                                        l )
                  Pl (m) = PM l                               ,                     (7)
                                q(Z m = 1)q(αm )q(β m )q(κm )
                            m=1     l          l      l     l

where q(αlm ), q(βlm ), q(κm
                           l ) are approximations during the variational inference,
in the sense that they minimize the KL-divergence to the real posterior [4]. The
8       J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

distributions need no normalization in the inference because we solely use them
as modulators for the sampling distribution Pl (m). This formulation assumes
statistical independence of the individual priors as a simplifying approximation,
which makes the optimization feasible using relatively simple models for well-
understood geometric relations. Intuitively, non-occluded images with sufficient
baseline, similar resolution, and non-oblique viewing direction are favored in
the view selection. Section 5 evaluates the priors in detail and shows how they
improve the reconstruction robustness especially for unstructured datasets.

4.3   View Selection Smoothness
The graphical model associated with the likelihood function in Eq. (2) uses state-
transition probabilities to model spatial view selection smoothness for neighbor-
ing pixels in the propagation direction. Due to the interleaved inference using
alternating propagation directions, Zlm suffers from oscillation, leading to strip-
                                                                            m
ing effects as shown in Figure 5. To reduce the oscillation effect of Zl,t    in itera-
tion t, we insert an additional “temporal” smoothness factor into the graphical
                                            m
model. In this new model, the state of Zl,t   depends not only on the state of its
neighboring pixel l − 1 but also on its own state in the previous iteration    t − 1.
                                                   m    m            λt 1−λt
The temporal state-transition is defined as P (Zl,t  |Zl,t−1 ) = 1−λ    t λ t
                                                                               , where
a larger λt enforces greater temporal smoothness during the optimization. In
fact, as the optimization progresses from t = 1 . . . T , the value of the estimated
  m
Zl,t−1  should stabilize around the optimal solution. Therefore, we adaptively
                                                     t                               m
increase the state-transition probability as λt = 2T     + 0.5, i.e., the inferred Zl,t
in iterations t = 1 and t = T − 1 have maximal and minimal influence on the
              m
final value Zl,T , respectively. The two state-transitions are jointly modeled as
                   m     m        m             m     m          m     m
               P (Zl,t |Zl−1,t , Zl,t−1 ) = P (Zl,t |Zl−1,t )P (Zl,t |Zl,t−1 ).    (8)
                                m
Fig. 5 shows the evolution of Zl,t during the optimization and demonstrates the
reduced oscillation, which effectively also leads to less noisy view sampling.

4.4   Photometric Consistency
Zheng et al. [59] employ NCC to compute the color similarity ρm    l . NCC is sta-
tistically optimal for Gaussian noise but is especially vulnerable to producing
blurred depth discontinuities [23]. Inspired by [5,54], we diminish these artifacts
by using a bilaterally weighted adaption of NCC. We compute ρm        l between a
reference patch wl at xl with a corresponding source patch wlm at xm    l as

                                        covw (wl , wlm )
                       ρm
                        l = p                                                      (9)
                                  covw (wl , wl ) covw (wlm , wlm )

               P= Ew (xP− Ew (x)) Ew (y − Ew (y)) is the weighted covariance
where covw (x, y)
and Ew (x) =      i wi xi / i wi is the weighted average. The per-pixel weight
             ∆g 2   ∆x2
wi = exp(− 2σ2i − 2σ2i ) indicates the likelihood that a pixel i in the local patch
               g       x
                  Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo                 9

belongs to the same plane as its center pixel at l. It is a function of the grayscale
color distance ∆gi = |gi − gl | and the spatial distance ∆xi = kxi − xl k, whose
importance is relatively scaled by the Gaussian dispersion σg and σx . By integrat-
ing the bilaterally weighted NCC into the term P (Xlm |Zlm , θl , nl ), our method
achieves more accurate results at occlusion boundaries, as shown in Section 5.

4.5    Geometric Consistency
MVS typically suffers from gross outliers due to noise, ambiguities, occlusions,
etc. In these cases, the photometric consistency for different hypotheses is am-
biguous as large depth variations induce only small cost changes. Spatial smooth-
ness constraints can often reduce but not fully eliminate the resulting artifacts. A
popular approach to filter these outliers is to enforce multi-view depth coherence
through left-right consistency checks as a post-processing step [5, 15].
    In contrast to most approaches, we integrate multi-view geometric consis-
tency constraints into the inference to increase both the completeness and the
accuracy. Similar to Zhang et al. [58], we infer the best depth and normal based
on both photometric and geometric consistency in multiple views. Since photo-
metric ambiguities are usually unique to individual views (except textureless sur-
faces), exploiting the information from multiple views can often help to pinpoint
the right solution. We compute the geometric consistency between two views
as the forward-backward reprojection error ψlm = kxl − Hlm Hl xl k, where Hlm
denotes the projective backward transformation from the source to the reference
image. It is composed from the source image estimates (θlm , nm              l ) interpolated at
the forward projection xm      l  = H l x l . Intuitively, the  estimated      depths and nor-
mals are consistent if the reprojection error ψlm is small. Due to computational
constraints, we cannot consider the occlusion indicators in the source image for
the backward projection. Hence, to handle occlusion in the source image, we em-
ploy a robustified geometric cost in ξlm = 1−ρm                        m
                                                       l +η min (ψl , ψmax ) using η = 0.5
as a constant regularizer and ψmax = 3px as the maximum forward-backward
reprojection error. Then, the optimal depth and normal is chosen as
                                                 1 X
                   (θ̂lopt , n̂opt
                               l ) = argmin                  ξlm (θl∗ , n∗l ).              (10)
                                       θl∗ ,n∗l
                                                |S|     m∈S

The geometric consistency term is modeled as P (θl , nl |θlm , nm
                                                                l ) in the likelihood
function, and Section 4.6 shows how to integrate its inference into the overall
optimization framework. Experiments in Section 5 demonstrate how this formu-
lation improves both the accuracy and the completeness of the results.

4.6    Integration
This section contextualizes the individual terms of the proposed algorithm by
explaining their integration into the overall optimization framework [59]. The
joint likelihood function P (X, Z, θ, N ) of our proposed algorithm is defined as
         Y M
         L Y
                       m     m        m
                  [P (Zl,t |Zl−1,t , Zl,t−1 )P (Xlm |Zlm , θl , nl )P (θl , nl |θlm , nm
                                                                                       l )]
         l=1 m=1
10       J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

over the input images X, the occlusion indicators Z, the depths θ, the normals
N , and is composed of several individual terms. First, the spatial and temporal
                           m     m        m
smoothness term P (Zl,t      |Zl−1,t , Zl,t−1  ) (Section 4.3) enforces spatially smooth oc-
clusion maps with reduced temporal oscillation during the optimization. Second,
the photometric consistency term P (Xlm |Zlm , θl , nl ) uses bilateral NCC (Section
4.4) and a slanted plane-induced homography (Section 4.1) to compute the color
similarity ρm  l between the reference and source images. Third, the geometric
consistency term P (θl , nl |θlm , nm    l ) to enforce multi-view consistent depth and
normal estimates. The photometric and geometric consistency terms are com-
puted using Monte-Carlo view sampling from the distribution Pl (m) in Eq. (7).
The distribution encourages the sampling of non-occluded source images with
informative and non-degenerate viewing geometry (Section 4.2).
    Analog to Zheng et al. [59], we factorize the real posterior P (Z, θ, N |X) in
its approximation q(Z, θ, N ) = q(Z)q(θ, N ) [4]. Furthermore, for tractability,
we constrain q(θ, N ) to the family of Kronecker delta functions q(θl , nl ) =
δ(θl =θl∗ , nl =n∗l ). Variational inference then aims to infer the optimal member
of the family of approximate posteriors to find the optimal Z, θ, N . The validity
of using GEM for this type of problem has already been shown in [33, 59]. To
            m
infer q(Zl,t  ) in iteration t of the E step of GEM, we employ the forward-backward
algorithm as
                                               1→ m ←
                                     m
                                  q(Zl,t )= −             − m)
                                                 m(Zl,t ) m(Z  l,t                          (11)
                                              A
with −→
      m(Zl,t m
                ) and ← − m ) being the recursive forward and backward messages
                       m(Z  l,t

  →
  −                                              →
                                                 −
                                      X
  m(Zlm ) = P (Xlm |Zlm , θl , nl )          m
                                                      m
                                                 m(Zl−1          m
                                                          )P (Zl,t   m
                                                                   |Zl−1,t    m
                                                                           , Zl,t−1 )       (12)
                                            Zl−1
  ←− m) =                ←− m )P (X m |Z m , θ , n )P (Z m |Z m , Z m ) (13)
                 X
  m(Z  l              m
                         m(Z    l+1        l+1 l+1 l+1        l+1      l,t l+1,t      l,t−1
                  Zl+1

using an uninformative prior −   →
                                 m(Z0m ) = −→   m
                                            m(ZL+1                          m
                                                   ) = 0.5. The variable q(Zl,t ) to-
                 m       m       m
gether with q(αl ), q(βl ), q(κl ) determine the view sampling distribution Pl (m)
used in the M step of GEM as defined in Eq. (7). The M step uses PatchMatch
propagation and sampling (Section 4.1) for choosing the optimal depth and nor-
mal parameters over q(θl , nl ). Since geometrically consistent depth and normal
inference is not feasible for all images simultaneously due to memory constraints,
we decompose the inference in two stages. In the first stage, we estimate initial
depths and normals for each image in the input set X according to Eq. (5).
In the second stage, we use coordinate descent optimization to infer geometri-
cally consistent depths and normals according to Eq. (10) by keeping all images
but the current reference image as constant. We interleave the E and M step
in both stages using row- and column-wise propagation. Four propagations in
all directions denote a sweep. In the second stage, a single sweep defines a co-
ordinate descent step, i.e., we alternate between different reference images after
propagating through the four directions. Typically, the first stage converges after
I1 = 3 sweeps, while the second stage requires another I2 = 2 sweeps through
the entire image collection to reach a stable state. We refer the reader to the
supplementary material for an overview of the steps of our algorithm.
                     Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo           11

      Zheng et al.         Photometric   Photometric + Geometric   Filtered     Normals




Fig. 3. Reconstruction results for South Building [20] and Fountain [48]. From left to
right: Depth map by Zheng et al. [59], then ours only with the photometric term, with
the photometric and geometric terms, and the final filtered depth and normal maps.


4.7    Filtering and Fusion

After describing the depth and normal inference, this section proposes a ro-
bust method to filter any remaining outliers, e.g., in textureless sky regions.
In addition to the benefits described previously, the photometric and geometric
consistency terms provide us with measures to robustly detect outliers at negli-
gible computational cost. An inlier observation should be both photometrically
and geometrically stable with support from multiple views. The sets

       Slpho = {xm      m
                 l | q(Zl ) > q̄Z }                                                       (14)
       Slgeo = {xm      m              m              m            m
                 l | q(αl ) ≥ q̄α , q(βl ) ≥ q̄β , q(κl ) > q̄κ , ψl < ψmax }             (15)

determine the photometric and geometric support of a reference image pixel xl .
To satisfy both constraints, we define the effective support of an observation as
                     pho         geo
Sl = {xm       m
         l | xl ∈ S l    , xm
                            l ∈ Sl } and filter any observations with |Sl | < s. In
all our experiments, we set s = 3, q̄Z = 0.5, q̄α = 1, q̄β = 0.5, and q̄κ = P (κ =
90◦ ). Figs. 3 and 6 show examples of filtered depth and normal maps.
    The collection of support sets S over the observations in all input images
defines a directed graph of consistent pixels. In this graph, pixels with sufficient
support are nodes, and directed edges point from a reference to a source image
pixel. Nodes are associated with depth and normal estimates and, together with
the intrinsic and extrinsic calibration, edges define a projective transformation
from the reference to the source pixel. Our fusion finds clusters of consistent
pixels in this graph by initializing a new cluster using the node with maxi-
mum support |S| and recursively collecting connected nodes that satisfy three
constraints. Towards this goal, we project the first node into 3D to obtain the
location p0 and normal n0 . For the first constraint, the projected depth θ̃0 of the
first node into the image of any other node in the cluster must be consistent with
the estimated depth θi of the other node such that |θ̃0θ̃−θi | < θ (cf. [32]). Second,
                                                                   0
the normals of the two must be consistent such that 1 − nT0 ni < n . Third, the
reprojection error ψi of p0 w.r.t. the other node must be smaller than ψ̄. Note
12        J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

                                                     1   2                                  1   4
                                                             1     1                                1     1


                                                             0.9   0.9                              0.9   0.9


                                                             0.8   0.8                              0.8   0.8




                               Occlusion Prior                           Resolution Prior
                                                             0.7   0.7                              0.7   0.7


                                                             0.6   0.6                              0.6   0.6



           5                                                 0.5   0.5                              0.5   0.5


                                                             0.4   0.4                              0.4   0.4


                                                             0.3   0.3                              0.3   0.3


                                                             0.2   0.2                              0.2   0.2


                                                             0.1   0.1                              0.1   0.1


                                                             0     0                                0     0



                                                     1   3   1     1
                                                                                            1   5
                                                                                                    1     1


                                                             0.9   0.9                              0.9   0.9




                               Triangulation Prior
                                                             0.8   0.8                              0.8   0.8

     4



                                                                         Incident Prior
                                                             0.7   0.7                              0.7   0.7


                                                             0.6   0.6                              0.6   0.6


                                                             0.5   0.5                              0.5   0.5




                   R   1   2                                 0.4   0.4                              0.4   0.4


                                                                                                          0.3

               3
                                                             0.3   0.3                              0.3


                                                             0.2   0.2                              0.2   0.2


                                                             0.1   0.1                              0.1   0.1


                                                             0     0                                0     0




Fig. 4. Photometric and geometric priors for South Building dataset [20] between ref-
erence image (R) and each two selected source images (1-5).


that the graph can have loops, and therefore we only collect nodes once. In ad-
dition, multiple pixels in the same image can belong to the same cluster and, by
choosing ψ̄, we can control the resolution of the fused point cloud. When there
is no remaining node that satisfies the three constraints, we fuse the cluster’s
elements, if it has at least three elements. The fused point has median location
p̂j and mean normal nj over all cluster elements. The median location is used
to avoid artifacts when averaging over multiple neighboring pixels at large depth
discontinuities. Finally, we remove the fused nodes from the graph and initialize
a new cluster with maximum support |S| until the graph is empty. The resulting
point cloud can then be colored (e.g. [52]) for visualization purposes and, since
the points already have normals, we can directly apply meshing algorithms (e.g.
Poisson reconstruction [30]) as an optional step.


5        Experiments
This section first demonstrates the benefits of the proposed contributions in iso-
lation. Following that, we compare to other methods and show state-of-the-art
results on both low- and high-resolution benchmark datasets. Finally, we eval-
uate the performance of our algorithm in the challenging setting of large-scale
Internet photo collections. The algorithm lends itself for massive parallelization
on the row- and column-wise propagation and the view level. In all our exper-
iments, we use a CUDA implementation of our algorithm on a Nvidia Titan X
GPU. We set γ = 0.999, leading to an average of one occlusion indicator state
change per 1000 pixels. Empirically, we choose σρ = 0.6, ᾱ = 1◦ , and σk = 45◦ .
    Components. This paragraph shows the benefits of the individual compo-
nents in isolation based on the South Building dataset [20], which consists of 128
unstructured images with a resolution of 7MP. We obtain sparse reconstructions
using SfM [21]. For each reference view, we use all 127 images as source views
with an average runtime of 50s per sweep. Normal Estimation: Fig. 3 shows depth
maps using fronto-parallel homographies (1st column) and with normal estima-
tion (2nd to 5th columns), which leads to increased completeness and accuracy
for depth inference of oblique scene elements, such as the ground. In addition, our
method estimates more accurate normals than standard PatchMatch (Fig. 5(b)).
Due to the proposed PatchMatch sampling scheme, our algorithm requires the
                               Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo   13


Spatial




Spatio-temporal

                                 (a)                         (b)                     (c)



Fig. 5. (a) Comparison of spatial smoothness term [59] with our proposed spatial and
temporal smoothness term for the occlusion variables Z. Algorithm starts from the left
with the first sweep and is followed by consecutive sweeps to the right. (b) Estimated
depths and normals using standard PatchMatch propagation (cf. Fig. 3 for ours). (c)
Reference image with filtered depths and normals for crowd-sourced images


same number sweeps to converge and only ≈ 25% more runtime due to more
hypotheses as compared to Zheng et al. [59], who only estimate per-pixel depths.
Geometric Priors: Fig. 4 demonstrates the benefit of each geometric prior. We
show the likelihood functions for the reference view against one representative
source image. For all priors, we observe varying likelihood within the same source
image, underlining the benefit of pixel-wise view selection. The priors correctly
downweigh the influence of source images with small triangulation angle, low
resolution, or occluded views. Selection Smoothness Fig. 5(a) shows that our
temporal smoothness term effectively mitigates the oscillation of the pure spa-
tial smoothness term. While the occlusion variables in the formulation by Zheng
et al. [59] oscillate depending on the propagation direction, in our method they
quickly converge in a stable state leading to more stable view sampling. Geomet-
ric Consistency: Fig. 3 demonstrates improved completeness when incorporating
the geometric consistency term, and it also allows to reliably detect outliers for
practically outlier-free filtered results. To measure the quantitative impact of
our contributions, we obtain benchmark results by omitting a single component
or combinations of components from the formulation (Table 1). We observe that
each component is important to achieve the overall accuracy and completeness
of our method. For further evaluations and impressions of the benefits of our
method, we strongly encourage the reader to view the supplementary material.
    Benchmarks. The Middlebury benchmark [38] consists of the Dino and
Temple models captured at 640x480 under varying settings (Full, Ring, Sparse).
For each reference image, we use all views as source images at a runtime of ≈ 40s
per view for the Full models with ≈ 300 images. We achieve excellent accuracy
and completeness on both models1 . Specifically, using the standard settings, we
rank 1st for Dino Full (tied) and Dino Sparse, while achieving competitive scores
for the Temple (4th for Full, 8th for Ring). Note that our method performs best
for higher resolutions, as normal estimation needs large patch sizes. Also, we
use basic Poisson meshing [30], underlining the highly accurate and outlier-free
depth/normal estimates produced by our method. The Strecha benchmark [48]
consists of high-resolution images with ground-truth, and we follow the evalua-
tion protocol of Hu and Mordohai [24]. Fig. 3 shows outputs for the Fountain
        1
                  Full results online at http://vision.middlebury.edu/mview/eval/.
14       J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

Table 1. Strecha benchmark [48] with reported values from [24]. Ratio of pixels with er-
ror less than 2cm and 10cm. Ours w/o normals (\N), geom. priors (\P), temp. smooth-
ness (\S), geom. consistency (\G), bilateral NCC (\B), and with all components.

                      [59]   [24]   [13]   [57]   [51]   [26]   [15]   \N   \P   \S   \B   \PSB   \G   Ours

               2cm 0.769 0.754 0.731 0.712 0.732 0.824 0.693 0.799 0.824 0.825 0.826 0.817 0.804 0.827
     Fountain
              10cm 0.929 0.930 0.838 0.832 0.822 0.973 0.838 0.937 0.972 0.973 0.973 0.965 0.949 0.975

                 2cm 0.650 0.649 0.646 0.220 0.658 0.739 0.283 0.673 0.686 0.688 0.690 0.688 0.679 0.691
     Herzjesu
                10cm 0.844 0.848 0.836 0.501 0.852 0.923 0.455 0.901 0.928 0.927 0.929 0.921 0.907 0.931




Fig. 6. Reference image with filtered depths and normals for crowd-sourced images.


dataset and, Table 1 lists the results quantifying both the accuracy and com-
pleteness. To maintain comparability against Zheng et al. [59], we evaluate our
raw depth maps against the ground-truth. We produce significantly more ac-
curate and complete results than Zheng et al., and we outperform the other
methods in 3 of 4 categories, even though the results of [24, 26, 51] are evaluated
based on the projection of a 3D surface obtained through depth map fusion.
    Internet Photos. We densely reconstruct models of 100M Internet photos
released by Heinly et al. [21, 39] using a single machine with 4 Nvidia Titan X.
We process the 41K images at a rate of 70s per view using 2 threads per GPU
and finish after 4.2 days in addition to the 6 days needed for sparse modeling
using SfM. Whenever we reach the GPU memory limits, we select the most con-
nected source images ranked by the number of shared sparse points. Usually, this
limit is reached for ≈ 200 images, while image sizes vary from 0.01MP to 9MP.
The fusion and filtering steps consume negligible runtime. Fig. 1 shows fused
point clouds, Figs. 6 and 5(c) show depth/normal maps, and the supplementary
material provides more results and comparisons against [12, 13, 19].


6    Conclusion
This work proposes a novel algorithm for robust and efficient dense reconstruc-
tion from unstructured image collections. Our method estimates accurate depth
and normal information using photometric and geometric information for pixel-
wise view selection and for image-based fusion and filtering. We achieve state-
of-the-art results on benchmarks and crowd-sourced data.
                Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo           15

References

 1. Agarwal, S., Furukawa, Y., Snavely, N., Simon, I., Curless, B., Seitz, S., Szeliski,
    R.: Building rome in a day. In: ICCV (2009)
 2. Bailer, C., Finckh, M., Lensch, H.P.: Scale robust multi view stereo. In: ECCV
    (2012)
 3. Birchfield, S., Tomasi, C.: Multiway cut for stereo and motion with slanted surfaces.
    In: ICCV (1999)
 4. Bishop, C.M.: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning. Springer Verlag (2006)
 5. Bleyer, M., Rhemann, C., Rother, C.: Patchmatch stereo-stereo matching with
    slanted support windows. In: BMVC (2011)
 6. Burt, P., Wixson, L., Salgian, G.: Electronically directed focal stereo. In: ICCV
    (1995)
 7. Campbell, N., Vogiatzis, G., Hernández, C., Cipolla, R.: Using multiple hypotheses
    to improve depth-maps for multi-view stereo. In: ECCV (2008)
 8. Chen, S.E., Williams, L.: View interpolation for image synthesis. In: Conference
    on Computer graphics and interactive techniques (1993)
 9. Forster, C., Pizzoli, M., Scaramuzza, D.: Air-ground localization and map augmen-
    tation using monocular dense reconstruction. In: IROS (2013)
10. Frahm, J.M., Fite-Georgel, P., Gallup, D., Johnson, T., Raguram, R., Wu, C.,
    Jen, Y.H., Dunn, E., Clipp, B., Lazebnik, S., Pollefeys, M.: Building Rome on a
    Cloudless Day. In: ECCV (2010)
11. Furukawa, Y., Curless, B., Seitz, S.M., Szeliski, R.: Reconstructing building inte-
    riors from images. In: CVPR (2009)
12. Furukawa, Y., Curless, B., Seitz, S.M., Szeliski, R.: Towards internet-scale multi-
    view stereo. In: CVPR (2010)
13. Furukawa, Y., Ponce, J.: Accurate, dense, and robust multiview stereopsis. In:
    CVPR (2007)
14. Furukawa, Y., Curless, B., Seitz, S.M., Szeliski, R.: Manhattan-world stereo. In:
    CVPR (2009)
15. Galliani, S., Lasinger, K., Schindler, K.: Massively parallel multiview stereopsis by
    surface normal diffusion. In: ICCV (2015)
16. Gallup, D., Frahm, J.M., Mordohai, P., Pollefeys, M.: Variable baseline/resolution
    stereo. In: CVPR (2008)
17. Gallup, D., Frahm, J.M., Mordohai, P., Yang, Q., Pollefeys, M.: Real-time plane-
    sweeping stereo with multiple sweeping directions. In: CVPR (2007)
18. Gallup, D., Pollefeys, M., Frahm, J.M.: 3d reconstruction using an n-layer
    heightmap. In: Pattern Recognition (2010)
19. Goesele, M., Snavely, N., Curless, B., Hoppe, H., Seitz, S.M.: Multi-view stereo for
    community photo collections. In: CVPR (2007)
20. Hane, C., Zach, C., Cohen, A., Angst, R., Pollefeys, M.: Joint 3d scene reconstruc-
    tion and class segmentation. In: CVPR (2013)
21. Heinly, J., Schönberger, J.L., Dunn, E., Frahm, J.M.: Reconstructing the World*
    in Six Days *(As Captured by the Yahoo 100 Million Image Dataset). In: CVPR
    (2015)
22. Heise, P., Jensen, B., Klose, S., Knoll, A.: Variational patchmatch multiview re-
    construction and refinement. In: CVPR (2015)
23. Hirschmüller, H., Scharstein, D.: Evaluation of stereo matching costs on images
    with radiometric differences. PAMI (2009)
16      J.L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, J.M. Frahm

24. Hu, X., Mordohai, P.: Least commitment, viewpoint-based, multi-view stereo. In:
    3DIMPVT (2012)
25. Intille, S.S., Bobick, A.F.: Disparity-space images and large occlusion stereo (1994)
26. Jancosek, M., Pajdla, T.: Multi-view reconstruction preserving weakly-supported
    surfaces. In: CVPR (2011)
27. Ji, D., Dunn, E., Frahm, J.M.: 3d reconstruction of dynamic textures in crowd
    sourced data. In: ECCV (2014)
28. Kanade, T., Okutomi, M.: A stereo matching algorithm with an adaptive window:
    Theory and experiment. PAMI (1994)
29. Kang, S.B., Szeliski, R., Chai, J.: Handling occlusions in dense multi-view stereo.
    In: CVPR (2001)
30. Kazhdan, M., Hoppe, H.: Screened poisson surface reconstruction. ACM Trans.
    Graphics (2013)
31. Martin-Brualla, R., Gallup, D., Seitz, S.M.: 3d time-lapse reconstruction from in-
    ternet photos. In: ICCV (2015)
32. Merrell, P., Akbarzadeh, A., Wang, L., Mordohai, P., Frahm, J.M., Yang, R.,
    Nistér, D., Pollefeys, M.: Real-time visibility-based fusion of depth maps. In: CVPR
    (2007)
33. Neal, R.M., Hinton, G.E.: A view of the em algorithm that justifies incremental,
    sparse, and other variants. In: Learning in graphical models (1998)
34. Oswald, M., Cremers, D.: A convex relaxation approach to space time multi-view
    3d reconstruction. In: ICCV Workshops (2013)
35. Radenović, F., Schönberger, J.L., Ji, D., Frahm, J.M., Chum, O., Matas, J.: From
    dusk till dawn: Modeling in the dark. In: CVPR (2016)
36. Rhemann, C., Hosni, A., Bleyer, M., Rother, C., Gelautz, M.: Fast cost-volume
    filtering for visual correspondence and beyond. In: CVPR (2011)
37. Schaffalitzky, F., Zisserman, A.: Multi-view matching for unordered image sets, or
    How do I organize my holiday snaps? In: ECCV (2002)
38. Scharstein, D., Szeliski, R.: A taxonomy and evaluation of dense two-frame stereo
    correspondence algorithms. In: IJCV (2002)
39. Schönberger, J.L., Frahm, J.M.: Structure-from-motion revisited. In: CVPR (2016)
40. Schönberger, J.L., Radenović, F., Chum, O., Frahm, J.M.: From single image query
    to detailed 3d reconstruction. In: CVPR (2015)
41. Seitz, S.M., Curless, B., Diebel, J., Scharstein, D., Szeliski, R.: A comparison and
    evaluation of multi-view stereo reconstruction algorithms. In: CVPR (2006)
42. Shan, Q., Adams, R., Curless, B., Furukawa, Y., Seitz, S.M.: The visual turing test
    for scene reconstruction. In: 3DV (2013)
43. Shan, Q., Curless, B., Furukawa, Y., Hernandez, C., Seitz, S.M.: Occluding con-
    tours for multi-view stereo. In: CVPR (2014)
44. Shotton, J., Sharp, T., Kipman, A., Fitzgibbon, A., Finocchio, M., Blake, A.,
    Cook, M., Moore, R.: Real-time human pose recognition in parts from single depth
    images. In: Comm. ACM (2013)
45. Snavely, N., Seitz, S., Szeliski, R.: Photo tourism: exploring photo collections in
    3d. ACM Trans. Graphics (2006)
46. Strecha, C., Fransens, R., Van Gool, L.: Wide-baseline stereo from multiple views:
    a probabilistic account. In: CVPR (2004)
47. Strecha, C., Fransens, R., Van Gool, L.: Combined depth and outlier estimation in
    multi-view stereo. In: CVPR (2006)
48. Strecha, C., von Hansen, W., Gool, L.V., Fua, P., Thoennessen, U.: On bench-
    marking camera calibration and multi-view stereo for high resolution imagery. In:
    CVPR (2008)
                Pixelwise View Selection for Unstructured Multi-View Stereo          17

49. Sun, J., Li, Y., Kang, S.B., Shum, H.Y.: Symmetric stereo matching for occlusion
    handling. In: CVPR (2005)
50. Tung, T., Nobuhara, S., Matsuyama, T.: Complete multi-view reconstruction of
    dynamic scenes from probabilistic fusion of narrow and wide baseline stereo. In:
    ICCV (2009)
51. Tylecek, R., Sara, R.: Refinement of surface mesh for accurate multi-view recon-
    struction. IJVR (2010)
52. Waechter, M., Moehrle, N., Goesele, M.: Let there be color! large-scale texturing
    of 3d reconstructions. In: ECCV (2014)
53. Yang, Q., Wang, L., Yang, R., Stewénius, H., Nistér, D.: Stereo matching with
    color-weighted correlation, hierarchical belief propagation, and occlusion handling.
    PAMI (2009)
54. Yoon, K.J., Kweon, I.S.: Locally adaptive support-weight approach for visual cor-
    respondence search. In: CVPR (2005)
55. Zabulis, X., Daniilidis, K.: Multi-camera reconstruction based on surface normal
    estimation and best viewpoint selection. In: 3DPVT (2004)
56. Zach, C.: Fast and high quality fusion of depth maps. In: 3DPVT (2008)
57. Zaharescu, A., Boyer, E., Horaud, R.: Topology-adaptive mesh deformation for
    surface evolution, morphing, and multiview reconstruction. PAMI (2011)
58. Zhang, G., Jia, J., Wong, T.T., Bao, H.: Recovering consistent video depth maps
    via bundle optimization. In: CVPR (2008)
59. Zheng, E., Dunn, E., Jojic, V., Frahm, J.M.: Patchmatch based joint view selection
    and depthmap estimation. In: CVPR (2014)
60. Zheng, E., Dunn, E., Raguram, R., Frahm, J.M.: Efficient and scalable depthmap
    fusion. In: BMVC (2012)
61. Zheng, E., Wu, C.: Structure from motion using structure-less resection. In: ICCV
    (2015)
62. Zitnick, C.L., Kanade, T.: A cooperative algorithm for stereo matching and occlu-
    sion detection. PAMI (2000)
